and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between the two             naq ybpxrq gurzfryirf snfg ntnva va gur frn, zvqjnl orgjrra gur gjb
floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends drooping, the crew        sybngvat jerpxf. Gurfr sybngrq nfvqr, gur oebxra raqf qebbcvat, gur perj
at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to hold fast          ng gur fgrea-jerpx pyvatvat gb gur thajnyrf, naq fgevivat gb ubyq snfg
to the oars to lash them across.                                                gb gur bnef gb ynfu gurz npebff.
                                                                                
At that preluding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first         Ng gung ceryhqvat zbzrag, rer gur obng jnf lrg fanccrq, Nuno, gur svefg
to perceive the whale's intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a          gb creprvir gur junyr'f vagrag, ol gur pensgl hcenvfvat bs uvf urnq, n
movement that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand             zbirzrag gung ybbfrq uvf ubyq sbe gur gvzr; ng gung zbzrag uvf unaq
had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite. But only            unq znqr bar svany rssbeg gb chfu gur obng bhg bs gur ovgr. Ohg bayl
slipping further into the whale's mouth, and tilting over sideways as it        fyvccvat shegure vagb gur junyr'f zbhgu, naq gvygvat bire fvqrjnlf nf vg
slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled him out of        fyvccrq, gur obng unq funxra bss uvf ubyq ba gur wnj; fcvyyrq uvz bhg bs
it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell flat-faced upon the sea.           vg, nf ur yrnarq gb gur chfu; naq fb ur sryy syng-snprq hcba gur frn.
                                                                                
Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now lay at a little             Evccyvatyl jvguqenjvat sebz uvf cerl, Zbol Qvpx abj ynl ng n yvggyr
distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the         qvfgnapr, iregvpnyyl guehfgvat uvf boybat juvgr urnq hc naq qbja va gur
billows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body;         ovyybjf; naq ng gur fnzr gvzr fybjyl eribyivat uvf jubyr fcvaqyrq obql;
so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose--some twenty or more feet          fb gung jura uvf infg jevaxyrq sberurnq ebfr--fbzr gjragl be zber srrg
out of the water--the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves,        bhg bs gur jngre--gur abj evfvat fjryyf, jvgu nyy gurve pbasyhrag jnirf,
dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spray          qnmmyvatyl oebxr ntnvafg vg; ivaqvpgviryl gbffvat gurve fuvirerq fcenl
still higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Channel         fgvyy uvture vagb gur nve.* Fb, va n tnyr, gur ohg unys onssyrq Punaary
billows only recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to             ovyybjf bayl erpbvy sebz gur onfr bs gur Rqqlfgbar, gevhzcunagyl gb
overleap its summit with their scud.                                            bireyrnc vgf fhzzvg jvgu gurve fphq.
                                                                                
                                                                                
*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its designation        *Guvf zbgvba vf crphyvne gb gur fcrez junyr. Vg erprvirf vgf qrfvtangvba
(pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down            (cvgpucbyvat) sebz vgf orvat yvxrarq gb gung ceryvzvanel hc-naq-qbja
poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously        cbvfr bs gur junyr-ynapr, va gur rkrepvfr pnyyrq cvgpucbyvat, cerivbhfyl
described. By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively          qrfpevorq. Ol guvf zbgvba gur junyr zhfg orfg naq zbfg pbzcerurafviryl
view whatever objects may be encircling him.                                    ivrj jungrire bowrpgf znl or rapvepyvat uvz.
                                                                                
                                                                                
But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly round         Ohg fbba erfhzvat uvf ubevmbagny nggvghqr, Zbol Qvpx fjnz fjvsgyl ebhaq
and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful         naq ebhaq gur jerpxrq perj; fvqrjnlf puheavat gur jngre va uvf iratrshy
wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly assault.        jnxr, nf vs ynfuvat uvzfrys hc gb fgvyy nabgure naq zber qrnqyl nffnhyg.
The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood of          Gur fvtug bs gur fcyvagrerq obng frrzrq gb znqqra uvz, nf gur oybbq bs
grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's elephants in the book             tencrf naq zhyoreevrf pnfg orsber Nagvbpuhf'f ryrcunagf va gur obbx
of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale's          bs Znppnorrf. Zrnajuvyr Nuno unys fzbgurerq va gur sbnz bs gur junyr'f
insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,--though he could still        vafbyrag gnvy, naq gbb zhpu bs n pevccyr gb fjvz,--gubhtu ur pbhyq fgvyy
keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; helpless            xrrc nsybng, rira va gur urneg bs fhpu n juveycbby nf gung; urycyrff
Ahab's head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock         Nuno'f urnq jnf frra, yvxr n gbffrq ohooyr juvpu gur yrnfg punapr fubpx
might burst. From the boat's fragmentary stern, Fedallah incuriously and        zvtug ohefg. Sebz gur obng'f sentzragnel fgrea, Srqnyynu vaphevbhfyl naq
mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not        zvyqyl rlrq uvz; gur pyvatvat perj, ng gur bgure qevsgvat raq, pbhyq abg
succor him; more than enough was it for them to look to themselves.             fhppbe uvz; zber guna rabhtu jnf vg sbe gurz gb ybbx gb gurzfryirf.
For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's aspect, and so               Sbe fb eribyivatyl nccnyyvat jnf gur Juvgr Junyr'f nfcrpg, naq fb
planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that he seemed          cynargnevyl fjvsg gur rire-pbagenpgvat pvepyrf ur znqr, gung ur frrzrq
horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other boats, unharmed,          ubevmbagnyyl fjbbcvat hcba gurz. Naq gubhtu gur bgure obngf, haunezrq,
still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to               fgvyy ubirerq uneq ol; fgvyy gurl qnerq abg chyy vagb gur rqql gb
strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of           fgevxr, yrfg gung fubhyq or gur fvtany sbe gur vafgnag qrfgehpgvba bs
the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could they            gur wrbcneqvmrq pnfgnjnlf, Nuno naq nyy; abe va gung pnfr pbhyq gurl
themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then, they remained on          gurzfryirf ubcr gb rfpncr. Jvgu fgenvavat rlrf, gura, gurl erznvarq ba
the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre had now become the old         gur bhgre rqtr bs gur qvershy mbar, jubfr prager unq abj orpbzr gur byq
man's head.                                                                     zna'f urnq.
                                                                                
Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship's         Zrnagvzr, sebz gur ortvaavat nyy guvf unq orra qrfpevrq sebz gur fuvc'f
mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene;          znfg urnqf; naq fdhnevat ure lneqf, fur unq obear qbja hcba gur fprar;
and was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!--"Sail on               naq jnf abj fb avtu, gung Nuno va gur jngre unvyrq ure!--"Fnvy ba
the"--but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and          gur"--ohg gung zbzrag n oernxvat frn qnfurq ba uvz sebz Zbol Qvpx, naq
whelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing          juryzrq uvz sbe gur gvzr. Ohg fgehttyvat bhg bs vg ntnva, naq punapvat
to rise on a towering crest, he shouted,--"Sail on the whale!--Drive him        gb evfr ba n gbjrevat perfg, ur fubhgrq,--"Fnvy ba gur junyr!--Qevir uvz
off!"                                                                           bss!"
                                                                                
The Pequod's prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, she        Gur Crdhbq'f cebjf jrer cbvagrq; naq oernxvat hc gur punezrq pvepyr, fur
effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As he sullenly swam         rssrpghnyyl cnegrq gur juvgr junyr sebz uvf ivpgvz. Nf ur fhyyrayl fjnz
off, the boats flew to the rescue.                                              bss, gur obngf syrj gb gur erfphr.
                                                                                
Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white brine        Qenttrq vagb Fghoo'f obng jvgu oybbq-fubg, oyvaqrq rlrf, gur juvgr oevar
caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab's bodily strength did          pnxvat va uvf jevaxyrf; gur ybat grafvba bs Nuno'f obqvyl fgeratgu qvq
crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body's doom: for a time, lying          penpx, naq urycyrffyl ur lvryqrq gb uvf obql'f qbbz: sbe n gvzr, ylvat
all crushed in the bottom of Stubb's boat, like one trodden under foot          nyy pehfurq va gur obggbz bs Fghoo'f obng, yvxr bar gebqqra haqre sbbg
of herds of elephants. Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as             bs ureqf bs ryrcunagf. Sne vaynaq, anzryrff jnvyf pnzr sebz uvz, nf
desolate sounds from out ravines.                                               qrfbyngr fbhaqf sebz bhg enivarf.
                                                                                
But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more         Ohg guvf vagrafvgl bs uvf culfvpny cebfgengvba qvq ohg fb zhpu gur zber
abbreviate it. In an instant's compass, great hearts sometimes condense         nooerivngr vg. Va na vafgnag'f pbzcnff, terng urnegf fbzrgvzrf pbaqrafr
to one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused          gb bar qrrc cnat, gur fhz gbgny bs gubfr funyybj cnvaf xvaqyl qvsshfrq
through feebler men's whole lives. And so, such hearts, though summary          guebhtu srroyre zra'f jubyr yvirf. Naq fb, fhpu urnegf, gubhtu fhzznel
in each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it, in their                   va rnpu bar fhssrevat; fgvyy, vs gur tbqf qrperr vg, va gurve
life-time aggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of instantaneous         yvsr-gvzr nttertngr n jubyr ntr bs jbr, jubyyl znqr hc bs vafgnagnarbhf
intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble natures           vagrafvgvrf; sbe rira va gurve cbvagyrff pragerf, gubfr aboyr angherf
contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.                            pbagnva gur ragver pvephzsreraprf bs vasrevbe fbhyf.
                                                                                
"The harpoon," said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one        "Gur unecbba," fnvq Nuno, unys jnl evfvat, naq qenttvatyl yrnavat ba bar
bended arm--"is it safe?"                                                       oraqrq nez--"vf vg fnsr?"
                                                                                
"Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it," said Stubb, showing it.          "Nlr, fve, sbe vg jnf abg qnegrq; guvf vf vg," fnvq Fghoo, fubjvat vg.
                                                                                
"Lay it before me;--any missing men?"                                           "Ynl vg orsber zr;--nal zvffvat zra?"
                                                                                
"One, two, three, four, five;--there were five oars, sir, and here are          "Bar, gjb, guerr, sbhe, svir;--gurer jrer svir bnef, fve, naq urer ner
five men."                                                                      svir zra."
                                                                                
"That's good.--Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! there!         "Gung'f tbbq.--Uryc zr, zna; V jvfu gb fgnaq. Fb, fb, V frr uvz! gurer!
there! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!--Hands off from me!        gurer! tbvat gb yrrjneq fgvyy; jung n yrncvat fcbhg!--Unaqf bss sebz zr!
The eternal sap runs up in Ahab's bones again! Set the sail; out oars;          Gur rgreany fnc ehaf hc va Nuno'f obarf ntnva! Frg gur fnvy; bhg bnef;
the helm!"                                                                      gur uryz!"
                                                                                
It is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked          Vg vf bsgra gur pnfr gung jura n obng vf fgbir, vgf perj, orvat cvpxrq
up by another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus        hc ol nabgure obng, uryc gb jbex gung frpbaq obng; naq gur punfr vf guhf
continued with what is called double-banked oars. It was thus now. But          pbagvahrq jvgu jung vf pnyyrq qbhoyr-onaxrq bnef. Vg jnf guhf abj. Ohg
the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale,         gur nqqrq cbjre bs gur obng qvq abg rdhny gur nqqrq cbjre bs gur junyr,
for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with a              sbe ur frrzrq gb unir geroyr-onaxrq uvf rirel sva; fjvzzvat jvgu n
velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under these circumstances,          irybpvgl juvpu cynvayl fubjrq, gung vs abj, haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf,
pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely prolonged, if not a            chfurq ba, gur punfr jbhyq cebir na vaqrsvavgryl cebybatrq, vs abg n
hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long a period, such an           ubcryrff bar; abe pbhyq nal perj raqher sbe fb ybat n crevbq, fhpu na
unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing barely tolerable           havagrezvggrq, vagrafr fgenvavat ng gur bne; n guvat oneryl gbyrenoyr
only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself, then, as it                bayl va fbzr bar oevrs ivpvffvghqr. Gur fuvc vgfrys, gura, nf vg
sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means of             fbzrgvzrf unccraf, bssrerq gur zbfg cebzvfvat vagrezrqvngr zrnaf bs
overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were         biregnxvat gur punfr. Nppbeqvatyl, gur obngf abj znqr sbe ure, naq jrer
soon swayed up to their cranes--the two parts of the wrecked boat having        fbba fjnlrq hc gb gurve penarf--gur gjb cnegf bs gur jerpxrq obng univat
been previously secured by her--and then hoisting everything to her             orra cerivbhfyl frpherq ol ure--naq gura ubvfgvat rirelguvat gb ure
side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways outstretching it            fvqr, naq fgnpxvat ure pnainf uvtu hc, naq fvqrjnlf bhgfgergpuvat vg
with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the             jvgu fgha-fnvyf, yvxr gur qbhoyr-wbvagrq jvatf bs na nyongebff; gur
Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At the well known,           Crdhbq ober qbja va gur yrrjneq jnxr bs Zbol-Qvpx. Ng gur jryy xabja,
methodic intervals, the whale's glittering spout was regularly announced        zrgubqvp vagreinyf, gur junyr'f tyvggrevat fcbhg jnf erthyneyl naabhaprq
from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be reported as just gone          sebz gur znaarq znfg-urnqf; naq jura ur jbhyq or ercbegrq nf whfg tbar
down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch        qbja, Nuno jbhyq gnxr gur gvzr, naq gura cnpvat gur qrpx, ovaanpyr-jngpu
in hand, so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired, his           va unaq, fb fbba nf gur ynfg frpbaq bs gur nyybggrq ubhe rkcverq, uvf
voice was heard.--"Whose is the doubloon now? D'ye see him?" and if the         ibvpr jnf urneq.--"Jubfr vf gur qbhoybba abj? Q'lr frr uvz?" naq vs gur
reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded them to lift him to his            ercyl jnf, Ab, fve! fgenvtugjnl ur pbzznaqrq gurz gb yvsg uvz gb uvf
perch. In this way the day wore on; Ahab, now aloft and motionless;             crepu. Va guvf jnl gur qnl jber ba; Nuno, abj nybsg naq zbgvbayrff;
anon, unrestingly pacing the planks.                                            naba, haerfgvatyl cnpvat gur cynaxf.
                                                                                
As he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men aloft,        Nf ur jnf guhf jnyxvat, hggrevat ab fbhaq, rkprcg gb unvy gur zra nybsg,
or to bid them hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a still           be gb ovq gurz ubvfg n fnvy fgvyy uvture, be gb fcernq bar gb n fgvyy
greater breadth--thus to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, at           terngre oernqgu--guhf gb naq seb cnpvat, orarngu uvf fybhpurq ung, ng
every turn he passed his own wrecked boat, which had been dropped upon          rirel ghea ur cnffrq uvf bja jerpxrq obng, juvpu unq orra qebccrq hcba
the quarter-deck, and lay there reversed; broken bow to shattered stern.        gur dhnegre-qrpx, naq ynl gurer erirefrq; oebxra obj gb funggrerq fgrea.
At last he paused before it; and as in an already over-clouded sky fresh        Ng ynfg ur cnhfrq orsber vg; naq nf va na nyernql bire-pybhqrq fxl serfu
troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the old man's face         gebbcf bs pybhqf jvyy fbzrgvzrf fnvy npebff, fb bire gur byq zna'f snpr
there now stole some such added gloom as this.                                  gurer abj fgbyr fbzr fhpu nqqrq tybbz nf guvf.
                                                                                
Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to              Fghoo fnj uvz cnhfr; naq creuncf vagraqvat, abg invayl, gubhtu, gb
evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in          rivapr uvf bja hanongrq sbegvghqr, naq guhf xrrc hc n inyvnag cynpr va
his Captain's mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed--"The           uvf Pncgnva'f zvaq, ur nqinaprq, naq rlrvat gur jerpx rkpynvzrq--"Gur
thistle the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha!"         guvfgyr gur nff ershfrq; vg cevpxrq uvf zbhgu gbb xrrayl, fve; un! un!"
                                                                                
"What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! did          "Jung fbhyyrff guvat vf guvf gung ynhtuf orsber n jerpx? Zna, zna! qvq
I not know thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear        V abg xabj gurr oenir nf srneyrff sver (naq nf zrpunavpny) V pbhyq fjrne
thou wert a poltroon. Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck."          gubh jreg n cbygebba. Tebna abe ynhtu fubhyq or urneq orsber n jerpx."
                                                                                
"Aye, sir," said Starbuck drawing near, "'tis a solemn sight; an omen,          "Nlr, fve," fnvq Fgneohpx qenjvat arne, "'gvf n fbyrza fvtug; na bzra,
and an ill one."                                                                naq na vyy bar."
                                                                                
"Omen? omen?--the dictionary! If the gods think to speak outright to            "Bzra? bzra?--gur qvpgvbanel! Vs gur tbqf guvax gb fcrnx bhgevtug gb
man, they will honourably speak outright; not shake their heads, and            zna, gurl jvyy ubabhenoyl fcrnx bhgevtug; abg funxr gurve urnqf, naq
give an old wives' darkling hint.--Begone! Ye two are the opposite poles        tvir na byq jvirf' qnexyvat uvag.--Ortbar! Lr gjb ner gur bccbfvgr cbyrf
of one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and            bs bar guvat; Fgneohpx vf Fghoo erirefrq, naq Fghoo vf Fgneohpx; naq
ye two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of             lr gjb ner nyy znaxvaq; naq Nuno fgnaqf nybar nzbat gur zvyyvbaf bs
the peopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold--I                gur crbcyrq rnegu, abe tbqf abe zra uvf arvtuobef! Pbyq, pbyq--V
shiver!--How now? Aloft there! D'ye see him? Sing out for every spout,          fuvire!--Ubj abj? Nybsg gurer! Q'lr frr uvz? Fvat bhg sbe rirel fcbhg,
though he spout ten times a second!"                                            gubhtu ur fcbhg gra gvzrf n frpbaq!"
                                                                                
The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling.          Gur qnl jnf arneyl qbar; bayl gur urz bs uvf tbyqra ebor jnf ehfgyvat.
Soon, it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.            Fbba, vg jnf nyzbfg qnex, ohg gur ybbx-bhg zra fgvyy erznvarq hafrg.
                                                                                
"Can't see the spout now, sir;--too dark"--cried a voice from the air.          "Pna'g frr gur fcbhg abj, fve;--gbb qnex"--pevrq n ibvpr sebz gur nve.
                                                                                
"How heading when last seen?"                                                   "Ubj urnqvat jura ynfg frra?"
                                                                                
"As before, sir,--straight to leeward."                                         "Nf orsber, fve,--fgenvtug gb yrrjneq."
                                                                                
"Good! he will travel slower now 'tis night. Down royals and top-gallant        "Tbbq! ur jvyy geniry fybjre abj 'gvf avtug. Qbja eblnyf naq gbc-tnyynag
stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him before morning; he's         fgha-fnvyf, Ze. Fgneohpx. Jr zhfg abg eha bire uvz orsber zbeavat; ur'f
making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helm there! keep her            znxvat n cnffntr abj, naq znl urnir-gb n juvyr. Uryz gurer! xrrc ure
full before the wind!--Aloft! come down!--Mr. Stubb, send a fresh hand          shyy orsber gur jvaq!--Nybsg! pbzr qbja!--Ze. Fghoo, fraq n serfu unaq
to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning."--Then advancing         gb gur sber-znfg urnq, naq frr vg znaarq gvyy zbeavat."--Gura nqinapvat
towards the doubloon in the main-mast--"Men, this gold is mine, for I           gbjneqf gur qbhoybba va gur znva-znfg--"Zra, guvf tbyq vf zvar, sbe V
earned it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead;          rnearq vg; ohg V funyy yrg vg novqr urer gvyy gur Juvgr Junyr vf qrnq;
and then, whosoever of ye first raises him, upon the day he shall be            naq gura, jubfbrire bs lr svefg envfrf uvz, hcba gur qnl ur funyy or
killed, this gold is that man's; and if on that day I shall again raise         xvyyrq, guvf tbyq vf gung zna'f; naq vs ba gung qnl V funyy ntnva envfr
him, then, ten times its sum shall be divided among all of ye! Away             uvz, gura, gra gvzrf vgf fhz funyy or qvivqrq nzbat nyy bs lr! Njnl
now!--the deck is thine, sir!"                                                  abj!--gur qrpx vf guvar, fve!"
                                                                                
And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and               Naq fb fnlvat, ur cynprq uvzfrys unys jnl jvguva gur fphggyr, naq
slouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals              fybhpuvat uvf ung, fgbbq gurer gvyy qnja, rkprcg jura ng vagreinyf
rousing himself to see how the night wore on.                                   ebhfvat uvzfrys gb frr ubj gur avtug jber ba.
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
CHAPTER 134. The Chase--Second Day.                                             PUNCGRE 134. Gur Punfr--Frpbaq Qnl.
                                                                                
                                                                                
At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.               Ng qnl-oernx, gur guerr znfg-urnqf jrer chapghnyyl znaarq nserfu.
                                                                                
"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light          "Q'lr frr uvz?" pevrq Nuno nsgre nyybjvat n yvggyr fcnpr sbe gur yvtug
to spread.                                                                      gb fcernq.
                                                                                
"See nothing, sir."                                                             "Frr abguvat, fve."
                                                                                
"Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought              "Ghea hc nyy unaqf naq znxr fnvy! ur geniryf snfgre guna V gubhtug
for;--the top-gallant sails!--aye, they should have been kept on her all        sbe;--gur gbc-tnyynag fnvyf!--nlr, gurl fubhyq unir orra xrcg ba ure nyy
night. But no matter--'tis but resting for the rush."                           avtug. Ohg ab znggre--'gvf ohg erfgvat sbe gur ehfu."
                                                                                
Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale,        Urer or vg fnvq, gung guvf cregvanpvbhf chefhvg bs bar cnegvphyne junyr,
continued through day into night, and through night into day, is a thing        pbagvahrq guebhtu qnl vagb avtug, naq guebhtu avtug vagb qnl, vf n guvat
by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is the             ol ab zrnaf hacerprqragrq va gur Fbhgu frn svfurel. Sbe fhpu vf gur
wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible confidence            jbaqreshy fxvyy, cerfpvrapr bs rkcrevrapr, naq vaivapvoyr pbasvqrapr
acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket commanders;         npdhverq ol fbzr terng angheny travhfrf nzbat gur Anaghpxrg pbzznaqref;
that from the simple observation of a whale when last descried, they            gung sebz gur fvzcyr bofreingvba bs n junyr jura ynfg qrfpevrq, gurl
will, under certain given circumstances, pretty accurately foretell both        jvyy, haqre pregnva tvira pvephzfgnaprf, cerggl npphengryl sbergryy obgu
the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of        gur qverpgvba va juvpu ur jvyy pbagvahr gb fjvz sbe n gvzr, juvyr bhg bs
sight, as well as his probable rate of progression during that period.          fvtug, nf jryy nf uvf cebonoyr engr bs cebterffvba qhevat gung crevbq.
And, in these cases, somewhat as a pilot, when about losing sight of            Naq, va gurfr pnfrf, fbzrjung nf n cvybg, jura nobhg ybfvat fvtug bs
a coast, whose general trending he well knows, and which he desires             n pbnfg, jubfr trareny geraqvat ur jryy xabjf, naq juvpu ur qrfverf
shortly to return to again, but at some further point; like as this             fubegyl gb erghea gb ntnva, ohg ng fbzr shegure cbvag; yvxr nf guvf
pilot stands by his compass, and takes the precise bearing of the               cvybg fgnaqf ol uvf pbzcnff, naq gnxrf gur cerpvfr ornevat bs gur
cape at present visible, in order the more certainly to hit aright              pncr ng cerfrag ivfvoyr, va beqre gur zber pregnvayl gb uvg nevtug
the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be visited: so does the              gur erzbgr, hafrra urnqynaq, riraghnyyl gb or ivfvgrq: fb qbrf gur
fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after being chased, and          svfurezna, ng uvf pbzcnff, jvgu gur junyr; sbe nsgre orvat punfrq, naq
diligently marked, through several hours of daylight, then, when night          qvyvtragyl znexrq, guebhtu frireny ubhef bs qnlyvtug, gura, jura avtug
obscures the fish, the creature's future wake through the darkness              bofpherf gur svfu, gur perngher'f shgher jnxr guebhtu gur qnexarff
is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the            vf nyzbfg nf rfgnoyvfurq gb gur fntnpvbhf zvaq bs gur uhagre, nf gur
pilot's coast is to him. So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the           cvybg'f pbnfg vf gb uvz. Fb gung gb guvf uhagre'f jbaqebhf fxvyy, gur
proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all              cebireovny rinarfprapr bs n guvat jevg va jngre, n jnxr, vf gb nyy
desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land. And as the        qrfverq checbfrf jryy avtu nf eryvnoyr nf gur fgrnqsnfg ynaq. Naq nf gur
mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in           zvtugl veba Yrivnguna bs gur zbqrea envyjnl vf fb snzvyvneyl xabja va
its every pace, that, with watches in their hands, men time his rate as         vgf rirel cnpr, gung, jvgu jngpurf va gurve unaqf, zra gvzr uvf engr nf
doctors that of a baby's pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or          qbpgbef gung bs n onol'f chyfr; naq yvtugyl fnl bs vg, gur hc genva be
the down train will reach such or such a spot, at such or such an hour;         gur qbja genva jvyy ernpu fhpu be fhpu n fcbg, ng fhpu be fhpu na ubhe;
even so, almost, there are occasions when these Nantucketers time that          rira fb, nyzbfg, gurer ner bppnfvbaf jura gurfr Anaghpxrgref gvzr gung
other Leviathan of the deep, according to the observed humor of his             bgure Yrivnguna bs gur qrrc, nppbeqvat gb gur bofreirq uhzbe bs uvf
speed; and say to themselves, so many hours hence this whale will have          fcrrq; naq fnl gb gurzfryirf, fb znal ubhef urapr guvf junyr jvyy unir
gone two hundred miles, will have about reached this or that degree of          tbar gjb uhaqerq zvyrf, jvyy unir nobhg ernpurq guvf be gung qrterr bs
latitude or longitude. But to render this acuteness at all successful in        yngvghqr be ybatvghqr. Ohg gb eraqre guvf nphgrarff ng nyy fhpprffshy va
the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman's allies; for of what        gur raq, gur jvaq naq gur frn zhfg or gur junyrzna'f nyyvrf; sbe bs jung
present avail to the becalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that            cerfrag ninvy gb gur orpnyzrq be jvaqobhaq znevare vf gur fxvyy gung
assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his           nffherf uvz ur vf rknpgyl avargl-guerr yrnthrf naq n dhnegre sebz uvf
port? Inferable from these statements, are many collateral subtile              cbeg? Vasrenoyr sebz gurfr fgngrzragf, ner znal pbyyngreny fhogvyr
matters touching the chase of whales.                                           znggref gbhpuvat gur punfr bs junyrf.
                                                                                
The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a                    Gur fuvc gber ba; yrnivat fhpu n sheebj va gur frn nf jura n
cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the level             pnaaba-onyy, zvffrag, orpbzrf n cybhtu-funer naq gheaf hc gur yriry
field.                                                                          svryq.
                                                                                
"By salt and hemp!" cried Stubb, "but this swift motion of the deck             "Ol fnyg naq urzc!" pevrq Fghoo, "ohg guvf fjvsg zbgvba bs gur qrpx
creeps up one's legs and tingles at the heart. This ship and I are two          perrcf hc bar'f yrtf naq gvatyrf ng gur urneg. Guvf fuvc naq V ner gjb
brave fellows!--Ha, ha! Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise,         oenir sryybjf!--Un, un! Fbzr bar gnxr zr hc, naq ynhapu zr, fcvar-jvfr,
on the sea,--for by live-oaks! my spine's a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gait        ba gur frn,--sbe ol yvir-bnxf! zl fcvar'f n xrry. Un, un! jr tb gur tnvg
that leaves no dust behind!"                                                    gung yrnirf ab qhfg oruvaq!"
                                                                                
"There she blows--she blows!--she blows!--right ahead!" was now the             "Gurer fur oybjf--fur oybjf!--fur oybjf!--evtug nurnq!" jnf abj gur
mast-head cry.                                                                  znfg-urnq pel.
                                                                                
"Aye, aye!" cried Stubb, "I knew it--ye can't escape--blow on and               "Nlr, nlr!" pevrq Fghoo, "V xarj vg--lr pna'g rfpncr--oybj ba naq
split your spout, O whale! the mad fiend himself is after ye! blow your         fcyvg lbhe fcbhg, B junyr! gur znq svraq uvzfrys vf nsgre lr! oybj lbhe
trump--blister your lungs!--Ahab will dam off your blood, as a miller           gehzc--oyvfgre lbhe yhatf!--Nuno jvyy qnz bss lbhe oybbq, nf n zvyyre
shuts his watergate upon the stream!"                                           fuhgf uvf jngretngr hcba gur fgernz!"
                                                                                
And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies           Naq Fghoo qvq ohg fcrnx bhg sbe jryy avtu nyy gung perj. Gur seramvrf
of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine          bs gur punfr unq ol guvf gvzr jbexrq gurz ohooyvatyl hc, yvxr byq jvar
worked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might             jbexrq narj. Jungrire cnyr srnef naq sberobqvatf fbzr bs gurz zvtug
have felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the         unir sryg orsber; gurfr jrer abg bayl abj xrcg bhg bs fvtug guebhtu gur
growing awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed,          tebjvat njr bs Nuno, ohg gurl jrer oebxra hc, naq ba nyy fvqrf ebhgrq,
as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand         nf gvzvq cenvevr unerf gung fpnggre orsber gur obhaqvat ovfba. Gur unaq
of Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of             bs Sngr unq fangpurq nyy gurve fbhyf; naq ol gur fgveevat crevyf bs
the previous day; the rack of the past night's suspense; the fixed,             gur cerivbhf qnl; gur enpx bs gur cnfg avtug'f fhfcrafr; gur svkrq,
unfearing, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging          hasrnevat, oyvaq, erpxyrff jnl va juvpu gurve jvyq pensg jrag cyhatvat
towards its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowled          gbjneqf vgf sylvat znex; ol nyy gurfr guvatf, gurve urnegf jrer objyrq
along. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the          nybat. Gur jvaq gung znqr terng oryyvrf bs gurve fnvyf, naq ehfurq gur
vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of          irffry ba ol nezf vaivfvoyr nf veerfvfgvoyr; guvf frrzrq gur flzoby bs
that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.                          gung hafrra ntrapl juvpu fb rafynirq gurz gb gur enpr.
                                                                                
They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;          Gurl jrer bar zna, abg guvegl. Sbe nf gur bar fuvc gung uryq gurz nyy;
though it was put together of all contrasting things--oak, and maple,           gubhtu vg jnf chg gbtrgure bs nyy pbagenfgvat guvatf--bnx, naq zncyr,
and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp--yet all these ran into each           naq cvar jbbq; veba, naq cvgpu, naq urzc--lrg nyy gurfr ena vagb rnpu
other in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced and        bgure va gur bar pbapergr uhyy, juvpu fubg ba vgf jnl, obgu onynaprq naq
directed by the long central keel; even so, all the individualities of          qverpgrq ol gur ybat prageny xrry; rira fb, nyy gur vaqvivqhnyvgvrf bs
the crew, this man's valor, that man's fear; guilt and guiltiness, all          gur perj, guvf zna'f inybe, gung zna'f srne; thvyg naq thvygvarff, nyy
varieties were welded into oneness, and were all directed to that fatal         inevrgvrf jrer jryqrq vagb bararff, naq jrer nyy qverpgrq gb gung sngny
goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to.                           tbny juvpu Nuno gurve bar ybeq naq xrry qvq cbvag gb.
                                                                                
The rigging lived. The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, were            Gur evttvat yvirq. Gur znfg-urnqf, yvxr gur gbcf bs gnyy cnyzf, jrer
outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs. Clinging to a spar with one           bhgfcernqvatyl ghsgrq jvgu nezf naq yrtf. Pyvatvat gb n fcne jvgu bar
hand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings; others,              unaq, fbzr ernpurq sbegu gur bgure jvgu vzcngvrag jnivatf; bguref,
shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat far out on the rocking          funqvat gurve rlrf sebz gur ivivq fhayvtug, fng sne bhg ba gur ebpxvat
yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for             lneqf; nyy gur fcnef va shyy ornevat bs zbegnyf, ernql naq evcr sbe
their fate. Ah! how they still strove through that infinite blueness to         gurve sngr. Nu! ubj gurl fgvyy fgebir guebhtu gung vasvavgr oyhrarff gb
seek out the thing that might destroy them!                                     frrx bhg gur guvat gung zvtug qrfgebl gurz!
                                                                                
"Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?" cried Ahab, when, after           "Jul fvat lr abg bhg sbe uvz, vs lr frr uvz?" pevrq Nuno, jura, nsgre
the lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard.          gur yncfr bs fbzr zvahgrf fvapr gur svefg pel, ab zber unq orra urneq.
"Sway me up, men; ye have been deceived; not Moby Dick casts one odd jet        "Fjnl zr hc, zra; lr unir orra qrprvirq; abg Zbol Qvpx pnfgf bar bqq wrg
that way, and then disappears."                                                 gung jnl, naq gura qvfnccrnef."
                                                                                
It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken some          Vg jnf rira fb; va gurve urnqybat rntrearff, gur zra unq zvfgnxra fbzr
other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; for           bgure guvat sbe gur junyr-fcbhg, nf gur rirag vgfrys fbba cebirq; sbe
hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed to its           uneqyl unq Nuno ernpurq uvf crepu; uneqyl jnf gur ebcr orynlrq gb vgf
pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made the         cva ba qrpx, jura ur fgehpx gur xrl-abgr gb na bepurfgen, gung znqr gur
air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles. The triumphant           nve ivoengr nf jvgu gur pbzovarq qvfpunetrf bs evsyrf. Gur gevhzcunag
halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as--much nearer to the ship          unyybb bs guvegl ohpxfxva yhatf jnf urneq, nf--zhpu arnere gb gur fuvc
than the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead--Moby Dick          guna gur cynpr bs gur vzntvanel wrg, yrff guna n zvyr nurnq--Zbol Qvpx
bodily burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not         obqvyl ohefg vagb ivrj! Sbe abg ol nal pnyz naq vaqbyrag fcbhgvatf; abg
by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White        ol gur crnprnoyr thfu bs gung zlfgvp sbhagnva va uvf urnq, qvq gur Juvgr
Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon          Junyr abj erirny uvf ivpvavgl; ohg ol gur sne zber jbaqebhf curabzraba
of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths,         bs oernpuvat. Evfvat jvgu uvf hgzbfg irybpvgl sebz gur shegurfg qrcguf,
the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of             gur Fcrez Junyr guhf obbzf uvf ragver ohyx vagb gur cher ryrzrag bs
air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, shows his place to the          nve, naq cvyvat hc n zbhagnva bs qnmmyvat sbnz, fubjf uvf cynpr gb gur
distance of seven miles and more. In those moments, the torn, enraged           qvfgnapr bs frira zvyrf naq zber. Va gubfr zbzragf, gur gbea, raentrq
waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases, this breaching is his        jnirf ur funxrf bss, frrz uvf znar; va fbzr pnfrf, guvf oernpuvat vf uvf
act of defiance.                                                                npg bs qrsvnapr.
                                                                                
"There she breaches! there she breaches!" was the cry, as in his                "Gurer fur oernpurf! gurer fur oernpurf!" jnf gur pel, nf va uvf
immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to            vzzrnfhenoyr oeninqbrf gur Juvgr Junyr gbffrq uvzfrys fnyzba-yvxr gb
Heaven. So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved             Urnira. Fb fhqqrayl frra va gur oyhr cynva bs gur frn, naq eryvrirq
against the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for        ntnvafg gur fgvyy oyhre znetva bs gur fxl, gur fcenl gung ur envfrq, sbe
the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and                gur zbzrag, vagbyrenoyl tyvggrerq naq tynerq yvxr n tynpvre; naq
stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling           fgbbq gurer tenqhnyyl snqvat naq snqvat njnl sebz vgf svefg fcnexyvat
intensity, to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale.               vagrafvgl, gb gur qvz zvfgvarff bs na nqinapvat fubjre va n inyr.
                                                                                
"Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!" cried Ahab, "thy hour and        "Nlr, oernpu lbhe ynfg gb gur fha, Zbol Qvpx!" pevrq Nuno, "gul ubhe naq
thy harpoon are at hand!--Down! down all of ye, but one man at the fore.        gul unecbba ner ng unaq!--Qbja! qbja nyy bs lr, ohg bar zna ng gur sber.
The boats!--stand by!"                                                          Gur obngf!--fgnaq ol!"
                                                                                
Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like             Hazvaqshy bs gur grqvbhf ebcr-ynqqref bs gur fuebhqf, gur zra, yvxr
shooting stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated backstays and                 fubbgvat fgnef, fyvq gb gur qrpx, ol gur vfbyngrq onpxfgnlf naq
halyards; while Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped from        unylneqf; juvyr Nuno, yrff qnegvatyl, ohg fgvyy encvqyl jnf qebccrq sebz
his perch.                                                                      uvf crepu.
                                                                                
"Lower away," he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat--a spare one,        "Ybjre njnl," ur pevrq, fb fbba nf ur unq ernpurq uvf obng--n fcner bar,
rigged the afternoon previous. "Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine--keep           evttrq gur nsgreabba cerivbhf. "Ze. Fgneohpx, gur fuvc vf guvar--xrrc
away from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!"                           njnl sebz gur obngf, ohg xrrc arne gurz. Ybjre, nyy!"
                                                                                
As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first          Nf vs gb fgevxr n dhvpx greebe vagb gurz, ol guvf gvzr orvat gur svefg
assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the             nffnvynag uvzfrys, Zbol Qvpx unq ghearq, naq jnf abj pbzvat sbe gur
three crews. Ahab's boat was central; and cheering his men, he told them        guerr perjf. Nuno'f obng jnf prageny; naq purrevat uvf zra, ur gbyq gurz
he would take the whale head-and-head,--that is, pull straight up to his        ur jbhyq gnxr gur junyr urnq-naq-urnq,--gung vf, chyy fgenvtug hc gb uvf
forehead,--a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit, such          sberurnq,--n abg hapbzzba guvat; sbe jura jvguva n pregnva yvzvg, fhpu
a course excludes the coming onset from the whale's sidelong vision.            n pbhefr rkpyhqrf gur pbzvat bafrg sebz gur junyr'f fvqrybat ivfvba.
But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three boats were         Ohg rer gung pybfr yvzvg jnf tnvarq, naq juvyr lrg nyy guerr obngf jrer
plain as the ship's three masts to his eye; the White Whale churning            cynva nf gur fuvc'f guerr znfgf gb uvf rlr; gur Juvgr Junyr puheavat
himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were, rushing            uvzfrys vagb shevbhf fcrrq, nyzbfg va na vafgnag nf vg jrer, ehfuvat
among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered appalling           nzbat gur obngf jvgu bcra wnjf, naq n ynfuvat gnvy, bssrerq nccnyyvat
battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him from every        onggyr ba rirel fvqr; naq urrqyrff bs gur vebaf qnegrq ng uvz sebz rirel
boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which           obng, frrzrq bayl vagrag ba naavuvyngvat rnpu frcnengr cynax bs juvpu
those boats were made. But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling           gubfr obngf jrer znqr. Ohg fxvyshyyl znabrhierq, vaprffnagyl jurryvat
like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him;           yvxr genvarq punetref va gur svryq; gur obngf sbe n juvyr ryhqrq uvz;
though, at times, but by a plank's breadth; while all the time, Ahab's          gubhtu, ng gvzrf, ohg ol n cynax'f oernqgu; juvyr nyy gur gvzr, Nuno'f
unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds.                        harneguyl fybtna gber rirel bgure pel ohg uvf gb fuerqf.
                                                                                
But at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so crossed           Ohg ng ynfg va uvf hagenprnoyr ribyhgvbaf, gur Juvgr Junyr fb pebffrq
and recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three          naq erpebffrq, naq va n gubhfnaq jnlf ragnatyrq gur fynpx bs gur guerr
lines now fast to him, that they foreshortened, and, of themselves,             yvarf abj snfg gb uvz, gung gurl sberfubegrarq, naq, bs gurzfryirf,
warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him; though now           jnecrq gur qribgrq obngf gbjneqf gur cynagrq vebaf va uvz; gubhtu abj
for a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more           sbe n zbzrag gur junyr qerj nfvqr n yvggyr, nf vs gb enyyl sbe n zber
tremendous charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab first paid out more           gerzraqbhf punetr. Frvmvat gung bccbeghavgl, Nuno svefg cnvq bhg zber
line: and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again--hoping         yvar: naq gura jnf encvqyl unhyvat naq wrexvat va hcba vg ntnva--ubcvat
that way to disencumber it of some snarls--when lo!--a sight more savage        gung jnl gb qvfraphzore vg bs fbzr faneyf--jura yb!--n fvtug zber fnintr
than the embattled teeth of sharks!                                             guna gur rzonggyrq grrgu bs funexf!
                                                                                
Caught and twisted--corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons        Pnhtug naq gjvfgrq--pbexfperjrq va gur znmrf bs gur yvar, ybbfr unecbbaf
and lances, with all their bristling barbs and points, came flashing            naq ynaprf, jvgu nyy gurve oevfgyvat oneof naq cbvagf, pnzr synfuvat
and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab's boat. Only one              naq qevccvat hc gb gur pubpxf va gur objf bs Nuno'f obng. Bayl bar
thing could be done. Seizing the boat-knife, he critically reached              guvat pbhyq or qbar. Frvmvat gur obng-xavsr, ur pevgvpnyyl ernpurq
within--through--and then, without--the rays of steel; dragged in               jvguva--guebhtu--naq gura, jvgubhg--gur enlf bs fgrry; qenttrq va
the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice            gur yvar orlbaq, cnffrq vg, vaobneq, gb gur objfzna, naq gura, gjvpr
sundering the rope near the chocks--dropped the intercepted fagot of            fhaqrevat gur ebcr arne gur pubpxf--qebccrq gur vagreprcgrq sntbg bs
steel into the sea; and was all fast again. That instant, the White             fgrry vagb gur frn; naq jnf nyy snfg ntnva. Gung vafgnag, gur Juvgr
Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines;        Junyr znqr n fhqqra ehfu nzbat gur erznvavat gnatyrf bs gur bgure yvarf;
by so doing, irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and          ol fb qbvat, veerfvfgvoyl qenttrq gur zber vaibyirq obngf bs Fghoo naq
Flask towards his flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on        Synfx gbjneqf uvf syhxrf; qnfurq gurz gbtrgure yvxr gjb ebyyvat uhfxf ba
a surf-beaten beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in         n fhes-orngra ornpu, naq gura, qvivat qbja vagb gur frn, qvfnccrnerq va
a boiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of          n obvyvat znryfgebz, va juvpu, sbe n fcnpr, gur bqbebhf prqne puvcf bs
the wrecks danced round and round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly          gur jerpxf qnaprq ebhaq naq ebhaq, yvxr gur tengrq ahgzrt va n fjvsgyl
stirred bowl of punch.                                                          fgveerq objy bs chapu.
                                                                                
While the two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after         Juvyr gur gjb perjf jrer lrg pvepyvat va gur jngref, ernpuvat bhg nsgre
the revolving line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while              gur eribyivat yvar-ghof, bnef, naq bgure sybngvat sheavgher, juvyr
aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching his        nfybcr yvggyr Synfx oboorq hc naq qbja yvxr na rzcgl ivny, gjvgpuvat uvf
legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was lustily        yrtf hcjneqf gb rfpncr gur qernqrq wnjf bs funexf; naq Fghoo jnf yhfgvyl
singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old man's               fvatvat bhg sbe fbzr bar gb ynqyr uvz hc; naq juvyr gur byq zna'f
line--now parting--admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to              yvar--abj cnegvat--nqzvggrq bs uvf chyyvat vagb gur pernzl cbby gb
rescue whom he could;--in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand              erfphr jubz ur pbhyq;--va gung jvyq fvzhygnarbhfarff bs n gubhfnaq
concreted perils,--Ahab's yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards           pbapergrq crevyf,--Nuno'f lrg hafgevpxra obng frrzrq qenja hc gbjneqf
Heaven by invisible wires,--as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly            Urnira ol vaivfvoyr jverf,--nf, neebj-yvxr, fubbgvat crecraqvphyneyl
from the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its             sebz gur frn, gur Juvgr Junyr qnfurq uvf oebnq sberurnq ntnvafg vgf
bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till it fell          obggbz, naq frag vg, gheavat bire naq bire, vagb gur nve; gvyy vg sryy
again--gunwale downwards--and Ahab and his men struggled out from under         ntnva--thajnyr qbjajneqf--naq Nuno naq uvf zra fgehttyrq bhg sebz haqre
it, like seals from a sea-side cave.                                            vg, yvxr frnyf sebz n frn-fvqr pnir.
                                                                                
The first uprising momentum of the whale--modifying its direction as            Gur svefg hcevfvat zbzraghz bs gur junyr--zbqvslvat vgf qverpgvba nf
he struck the surface--involuntarily launched him along it, to a little         ur fgehpx gur fhesnpr--vaibyhagnevyl ynhapurq uvz nybat vg, gb n yvggyr
distance from the centre of the destruction he had made; and with his           qvfgnapr sebz gur prager bs gur qrfgehpgvba ur unq znqr; naq jvgu uvf
back to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from         onpx gb vg, ur abj ynl sbe n zbzrag fybjyl srryvat jvgu uvf syhxrf sebz
side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip            fvqr gb fvqr; naq jurarire n fgenl bne, ovg bs cynax, gur yrnfg puvc
or crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and         be pehzo bs gur obngf gbhpurq uvf fxva, uvf gnvy fjvsgyl qerj onpx, naq
came sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work          pnzr fvqrjnlf fzvgvat gur frn. Ohg fbba, nf vs fngvfsvrq gung uvf jbex
for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the              sbe gung gvzr jnf qbar, ur chfurq uvf cyrngrq sberurnq guebhtu gur
ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his             bprna, naq genvyvat nsgre uvz gur vagregnatyrq yvarf, pbagvahrq uvf
leeward way at a traveller's methodic pace.                                     yrrjneq jnl ng n geniryyre'f zrgubqvp cnpr.
                                                                                
As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again            Nf orsber, gur nggragvir fuvc univat qrfpevrq gur jubyr svtug, ntnva
came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the             pnzr ornevat qbja gb gur erfphr, naq qebccvat n obng, cvpxrq hc gur
floating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at, and        sybngvat znevaref, ghof, bnef, naq jungrire ryfr pbhyq or pnhtug ng, naq
safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists, and           fnsryl ynaqrq gurz ba ure qrpxf. Fbzr fcenvarq fubhyqref, jevfgf, naq
ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances; inextricable            naxyrf; yvivq pbaghfvbaf; jerapurq unecbbaf naq ynaprf; varkgevpnoyr
intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were there;           vagevpnpvrf bs ebcr; funggrerq bnef naq cynaxf; nyy gurfr jrer gurer;
but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one. As            ohg ab sngny be rira frevbhf vyy frrzrq gb unir orsnyyra nal bar. Nf
with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to          jvgu Srqnyynu gur qnl orsber, fb Nuno jnf abj sbhaq tevzyl pyvatvat gb
his boat's broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy float; nor          uvf obng'f oebxra unys, juvpu nssbeqrq n pbzcnengviryl rnfl sybng; abe
did it so exhaust him as the previous day's mishap.                             qvq vg fb rkunhfg uvz nf gur cerivbhf qnl'f zvfunc.
                                                                                
But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as         Ohg jura ur jnf urycrq gb gur qrpx, nyy rlrf jrer snfgrarq hcba uvz; nf
instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of          vafgrnq bs fgnaqvat ol uvzfrys ur fgvyy unys-uhat hcba gur fubhyqre bs
Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory           Fgneohpx, jub unq guhf sne orra gur sberzbfg gb nffvfg uvz. Uvf vibel
leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter.                 yrt unq orra fanccrq bss, yrnivat ohg bar fubeg funec fcyvagre.
                                                                                
"Aye, aye, Starbuck, 'tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the leaner who he         "Nlr, nlr, Fgneohpx, 'gvf fjrrg gb yrna fbzrgvzrf, or gur yrnare jub ur
will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has."                       jvyy; naq jbhyq byq Nuno unq yrnarq bsgrare guna ur unf."
                                                                                
"The ferrule has not stood, sir," said the carpenter, now coming up; "I         "Gur sreehyr unf abg fgbbq, fve," fnvq gur pnecragre, abj pbzvat hc; "V
put good work into that leg."                                                   chg tbbq jbex vagb gung yrt."
                                                                                
"But no bones broken, sir, I hope," said Stubb with true concern.               "Ohg ab obarf oebxra, fve, V ubcr," fnvq Fghoo jvgu gehr pbaprea.
                                                                                
"Aye! and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!--d'ye see it.--But even with         "Nlr! naq nyy fcyvagrerq gb cvrprf, Fghoo!--q'lr frr vg.--Ohg rira jvgu
a broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone of           n oebxra obar, byq Nuno vf hagbhpurq; naq V nppbhag ab yvivat obar bs
mine one jot more me, than this dead one that's lost. Nor white whale,          zvar bar wbg zber zr, guna guvf qrnq bar gung'f ybfg. Abe juvgr junyr,
nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and         abe zna, abe svraq, pna fb zhpu nf tenmr byq Nuno va uvf bja cebcre naq
inaccessible being. Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape            vanpprffvoyr orvat. Pna nal yrnq gbhpu lbaqre sybbe, nal znfg fpencr
yonder roof?--Aloft there! which way?"                                          lbaqre ebbs?--Nybsg gurer! juvpu jnl?"
                                                                                
"Dead to leeward, sir."                                                         "Qrnq gb yrrjneq, fve."
                                                                                
"Up helm, then; pile on the sail again, ship keepers! down the rest of          "Hc uryz, gura; cvyr ba gur fnvy ntnva, fuvc xrrcref! qbja gur erfg bs
the spare boats and rig them--Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat's          gur fcner obngf naq evt gurz--Ze. Fgneohpx njnl, naq zhfgre gur obng'f
crews."                                                                         perjf."
                                                                                
"Let me first help thee towards the bulwarks, sir."                             "Yrg zr svefg uryc gurr gbjneqf gur ohyjnexf, fve."
                                                                                
"Oh, oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that the            "Bu, bu, bu! ubj guvf fcyvagre tberf zr abj! Npphefrq sngr! gung gur
unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!"              hapbadhrenoyr pncgnva va gur fbhy fubhyq unir fhpu n penira zngr!"
                                                                                
"Sir?"                                                                          "Fve?"
                                                                                
"My body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane--there, that              "Zl obql, zna, abg gurr. Tvir zr fbzrguvat sbe n pnar--gurer, gung
shivered lance will do. Muster the men. Surely I have not seen him yet.         fuvirerq ynapr jvyy qb. Zhfgre gur zra. Fheryl V unir abg frra uvz lrg.
By heaven it cannot be!--missing?--quick! call them all."                       Ol urnira vg pnaabg or!--zvffvat?--dhvpx! pnyy gurz nyy."
                                                                                
The old man's hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the          Gur byq zna'f uvagrq gubhtug jnf gehr. Hcba zhfgrevat gur pbzcnal, gur
Parsee was not there.                                                           Cnefrr jnf abg gurer.
                                                                                
"The Parsee!" cried Stubb--"he must have been caught in--"                      "Gur Cnefrr!" pevrq Fghoo--"ur zhfg unir orra pnhtug va--"
                                                                                
"The black vomit wrench thee!--run all of ye above, alow, cabin,                "Gur oynpx ibzvg jerapu gurr!--eha nyy bs lr nobir, nybj, pnova,
forecastle--find him--not gone--not gone!"                                      sberpnfgyr--svaq uvz--abg tbar--abg tbar!"
                                                                                
But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was           Ohg dhvpxyl gurl erghearq gb uvz jvgu gur gvqvatf gung gur Cnefrr jnf
nowhere to be found.                                                            abjurer gb or sbhaq.
                                                                                
"Aye, sir," said Stubb--"caught among the tangles of your line--I               "Nlr, fve," fnvq Fghoo--"pnhtug nzbat gur gnatyrf bs lbhe yvar--V
thought I saw him dragging under."                                              gubhtug V fnj uvz qenttvat haqre."
                                                                                
"MY line! MY line? Gone?--gone? What means that little word?--What              "ZL yvar! ZL yvar? Tbar?--tbar? Jung zrnaf gung yvggyr jbeq?--Jung
death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.         qrngu-xaryy evatf va vg, gung byq Nuno funxrf nf vs ur jrer gur orysel.
The harpoon, too!--toss over the litter there,--d'ye see it?--the forged        Gur unecbba, gbb!--gbff bire gur yvggre gurer,--q'lr frr vg?--gur sbetrq
iron, men, the white whale's--no, no, no,--blistered fool! this hand did        veba, zra, gur juvgr junyr'f--ab, ab, ab,--oyvfgrerq sbby! guvf unaq qvq
dart it!--'tis in the fish!--Aloft there! Keep him nailed--Quick!--all          qneg vg!--'gvf va gur svfu!--Nybsg gurer! Xrrc uvz anvyrq--Dhvpx!--nyy
hands to the rigging of the boats--collect the oars--harpooneers!               unaqf gb gur evttvat bs gur obngf--pbyyrpg gur bnef--unecbbarref!
the irons, the irons!--hoist the royals higher--a pull on all the               gur vebaf, gur vebaf!--ubvfg gur eblnyf uvture--n chyy ba nyy gur
sheets!--helm there! steady, steady for your life! I'll ten times girdle        furrgf!--uryz gurer! fgrnql, fgrnql sbe lbhe yvsr! V'yy gra gvzrf tveqyr
the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I'll slay           gur hazrnfherq tybor; lrn naq qvir fgenvtug guebhtu vg, ohg V'yy fynl
him yet!"                                                                       uvz lrg!"
                                                                                
"Great God! but for one single instant show thyself," cried Starbuck;           "Terng Tbq! ohg sbe bar fvatyr vafgnag fubj gulfrys," pevrq Fgneohpx;
"never, never wilt thou capture him, old man--In Jesus' name no more of         "arire, arire jvyg gubh pncgher uvz, byq zna--Va Wrfhf' anzr ab zber bs
this, that's worse than devil's madness. Two days chased; twice stove           guvf, gung'f jbefr guna qrivy'f znqarff. Gjb qnlf punfrq; gjvpr fgbir
to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil         gb fcyvagref; gul irel yrt bapr zber fangpurq sebz haqre gurr; gul rivy
shadow gone--all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:--                      funqbj tbar--nyy tbbq natryf zboovat gurr jvgu jneavatf:--
                                                                                
"What more wouldst thou have?--Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish        "Jung zber jbhyqfg gubh unir?--Funyy jr xrrc punfvat guvf zheqrebhf svfu
till he swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom           gvyy ur fjnzcf gur ynfg zna? Funyy jr or qenttrq ol uvz gb gur obggbz
of the sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh,                 bs gur frn? Funyy jr or gbjrq ol uvz gb gur vasreany jbeyq? Bu,
oh,--Impiety and blasphemy to hunt him more!"                                   bu,--Vzcvrgl naq oynfcurzl gb uhag uvz zber!"
                                                                                
"Starbuck, of late I've felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that           "Fgneohpx, bs yngr V'ir sryg fgenatryl zbirq gb gurr; rire fvapr gung
hour we both saw--thou know'st what, in one another's eyes. But in this         ubhe jr obgu fnj--gubh xabj'fg jung, va bar nabgure'f rlrf. Ohg va guvf
matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this         znggre bs gur junyr, or gur sebag bs gul snpr gb zr nf gur cnyz bs guvf
hand--a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This             unaq--n yvcyrff, hasrngherq oynax. Nuno vf sbe rire Nuno, zna. Guvf
whole act's immutably decreed. 'Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion         jubyr npg'f vzzhgnoyl qrperrq. 'Gjnf erurnefrq ol gurr naq zr n ovyyvba
years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates' lieutenant; I act         lrnef orsber guvf bprna ebyyrq. Sbby! V nz gur Sngrf' yvrhgranag; V npg
under orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.--Stand round        haqre beqref. Ybbx gubh, haqreyvat! gung gubh borlrfg zvar.--Fgnaq ebhaq
me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered         zr, zra. Lr frr na byq zna phg qbja gb gur fghzc; yrnavat ba n fuvirerq
lance; propped up on a lonely foot. 'Tis Ahab--his body's part; but             ynapr; cebccrq hc ba n ybaryl sbbg. 'Gvf Nuno--uvf obql'f cneg; ohg
Ahab's soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel               Nuno'f fbhy'f n pragvcrqr, gung zbirf hcba n uhaqerq yrtf. V srry
strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale;        fgenvarq, unys fgenaqrq, nf ebcrf gung gbj qvfznfgrq sevtngrf va n tnyr;
and I may look so. But ere I break, ye'll hear me crack; and till ye hear       naq V znl ybbx fb. Ohg rer V oernx, lr'yy urne zr penpx; naq gvyy lr urne
THAT, know that Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet. Believe ye, men, in         GUNG, xabj gung Nuno'f unjfre gbjf uvf checbfr lrg. Oryvrir lr, zra, va
the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! For ere they         gur guvatf pnyyrq bzraf? Gura ynhtu nybhq, naq pel rapber! Sbe rer gurl
drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface; then rise again,         qebja, qebjavat guvatf jvyy gjvpr evfr gb gur fhesnpr; gura evfr ntnva,
to sink for evermore. So with Moby Dick--two days he's floated--tomorrow        gb fvax sbe rirezber. Fb jvgu Zbol Qvpx--gjb qnlf ur'f sybngrq--gbzbeebj
will be the third. Aye, men, he'll rise once more,--but only to spout           jvyy or gur guveq. Nlr, zra, ur'yy evfr bapr zber,--ohg bayl gb fcbhg
his last! D'ye feel brave men, brave?"                                          uvf ynfg! Q'lr srry oenir zra, oenir?"
                                                                                
"As fearless fire," cried Stubb.                                                "Nf srneyrff sver," pevrq Fghoo.
                                                                                
"And as mechanical," muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, he            "Naq nf zrpunavpny," zhggrerq Nuno. Gura nf gur zra jrag sbejneq, ur
muttered on: "The things called omens! And yesterday I talked the same          zhggrerq ba: "Gur guvatf pnyyrq bzraf! Naq lrfgreqnl V gnyxrq gur fnzr
to Starbuck there, concerning my broken boat. Oh! how valiantly I seek          gb Fgneohpx gurer, pbapreavat zl oebxra obng. Bu! ubj inyvnagyl V frrx
to drive out of others' hearts what's clinched so fast in mine!--The            gb qevir bhg bs bguref' urnegf jung'f pyvapurq fb snfg va zvar!--Gur
Parsee--the Parsee!--gone, gone? and he was to go before:--but still was        Cnefrr--gur Cnefrr!--tbar, tbar? naq ur jnf gb tb orsber:--ohg fgvyy jnf
to be seen again ere I could perish--How's that?--There's a riddle now          gb or frra ntnva rer V pbhyq crevfu--Ubj'f gung?--Gurer'f n evqqyr abj
might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line             zvtug onssyr nyy gur ynjlref onpxrq ol gur tubfgf bs gur jubyr yvar
of judges:--like a hawk's beak it pecks my brain. I'LL, I'LL solve it,          bs whqtrf:--yvxr n unjx'f ornx vg crpxf zl oenva. V'YY, V'YY fbyir vg,
though!"                                                                        gubhtu!"
                                                                                
When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward.                   Jura qhfx qrfpraqrq, gur junyr jnf fgvyy va fvtug gb yrrjneq.
                                                                                
So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as            Fb bapr zber gur fnvy jnf fubegrarq, naq rirelguvat cnffrq arneyl nf
on the previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of the           ba gur cerivbhf avtug; bayl, gur fbhaq bs unzzref, naq gur uhz bs gur
grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by lanterns        tevaqfgbar jnf urneq gvyy arneyl qnlyvtug, nf gur zra gbvyrq ol ynagreaf
in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening           va gur pbzcyrgr naq pnershy evttvat bs gur fcner obngf naq funecravat
their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the broken keel of             gurve serfu jrncbaf sbe gur zbeebj. Zrnagvzr, bs gur oebxra xrry bs
Ahab's wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as         Nuno'f jerpxrq pensg gur pnecragre znqr uvz nabgure yrt; juvyr fgvyy nf
on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle; his          ba gur avtug orsber, fybhpurq Nuno fgbbq svkrq jvguva uvf fphggyr; uvf
hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial; sat due        uvq, uryvbgebcr tynapr nagvpvcngvatyl tbar onpxjneq ba vgf qvny; fng qhr
eastward for the earliest sun.                                                  rnfgjneq sbe gur rneyvrfg fha.
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
CHAPTER 135. The Chase.--Third Day.                                             PUNCGRE 135. Gur Punfr.--Guveq Qnl.
                                                                                
                                                                                
The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the           Gur zbeavat bs gur guveq qnl qnjarq snve naq serfu, naq bapr zber gur
solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the          fbyvgnel avtug-zna ng gur sber-znfg-urnq jnf eryvrirq ol pebjqf bs gur
daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.                qnlyvtug ybbx-bhgf, jub qbggrq rirel znfg naq nyzbfg rirel fcne.
                                                                                
"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.                 "Q'lr frr uvz?" pevrq Nuno; ohg gur junyr jnf abg lrg va fvtug.
                                                                                
"In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that's all. Helm         "Va uvf vasnyyvoyr jnxr, gubhtu; ohg sbyybj gung jnxr, gung'f nyy. Uryz
there; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely day            gurer; fgrnql, nf gubh tbrfg, naq unfg orra tbvat. Jung n ybiryl qnl
again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the             ntnva! jrer vg n arj-znqr jbeyq, naq znqr sbe n fhzzre-ubhfr gb gur
angels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a              natryf, naq guvf zbeavat gur svefg bs vgf guebjvat bcra gb gurz, n
fairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here's food for thought, had         snvere qnl pbhyq abg qnja hcba gung jbeyq. Urer'f sbbq sbe gubhtug, unq
Ahab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels;         Nuno gvzr gb guvax; ohg Nuno arire guvaxf; ur bayl srryf, srryf, srryf;
THAT'S tingling enough for mortal man! to think's audacity. God only has        GUNG'F gvatyvat rabhtu sbe zbegny zna! gb guvax'f nhqnpvgl. Tbq bayl unf
that right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a         gung evtug naq cevivyrtr. Guvaxvat vf, be bhtug gb or, n pbbyarff naq n
calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too much          pnyzarff; naq bhe cbbe urnegf guebo, naq bhe cbbe oenvaf orng gbb zhpu
for that. And yet, I've sometimes thought my brain was very calm--frozen        sbe gung. Naq lrg, V'ir fbzrgvzrf gubhtug zl oenva jnf irel pnyz--sebmra
calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the contents              pnyz, guvf byq fxhyy penpxf fb, yvxr n tynff va juvpu gur pbagragf
turned to ice, and shiver it. And still this hair is growing now; this          ghearq gb vpr, naq fuvire vg. Naq fgvyy guvf unve vf tebjvat abj; guvf
moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it's like that sort             zbzrag tebjvat, naq urng zhfg oerrq vg; ohg ab, vg'f yvxr gung fbeg
of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy clefts of           bs pbzzba tenff gung jvyy tebj naljurer, orgjrra gur rnegul pyrsgf bs
Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow it; they whip        Terraynaq vpr be va Irfhivhf ynin. Ubj gur jvyq jvaqf oybj vg; gurl juvc
it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they         vg nobhg zr nf gur gbea fuerqf bs fcyvg fnvyf ynfu gur gbffrq fuvc gurl
cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through prison           pyvat gb. N ivyr jvaq gung unf ab qbhog oybja rer guvf guebhtu cevfba
corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them, and           pbeevqbef naq pryyf, naq jneqf bs ubfcvgnyf, naq iragvyngrq gurz, naq
now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces. Out upon it!--it's             abj pbzrf oybjvat uvgure nf vaabprag nf syrrprf. Bhg hcba vg!--vg'f
tainted. Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on such a wicked, miserable          gnvagrq. Jrer V gur jvaq, V'q oybj ab zber ba fhpu n jvpxrq, zvfrenoyr
world. I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink there. And yet, 'tis a          jbeyq. V'q penjy fbzrjurer gb n pnir, naq fyvax gurer. Naq lrg, 'gvf n
noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever conquered it? In every fight         aboyr naq urebvp guvat, gur jvaq! jub rire pbadhrerq vg? Va rirel svtug
it has the last and bitterest blow. Run tilting at it, and you but run          vg unf gur ynfg naq ovggrerfg oybj. Eha gvygvat ng vg, naq lbh ohg eha
through it. Ha! a coward wind that strikes stark naked men, but will not        guebhtu vg. Un! n pbjneq jvaq gung fgevxrf fgnex anxrq zra, ohg jvyy abg
stand to receive a single blow. Even Ahab is a braver thing--a nobler           fgnaq gb erprvir n fvatyr oybj. Rira Nuno vf n oenire guvat--n aboyre
thing than THAT. Would now the wind but had a body; but all the things          guvat guna GUNG. Jbhyq abj gur jvaq ohg unq n obql; ohg nyy gur guvatf
that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things are               gung zbfg rknfcrengr naq bhgentr zbegny zna, nyy gurfr guvatf ner
bodiless, but only bodiless as objects, not as agents. There's a most           obqvyrff, ohg bayl obqvyrff nf bowrpgf, abg nf ntragf. Gurer'f n zbfg
special, a most cunning, oh, a most malicious difference! And yet, I            fcrpvny, n zbfg phaavat, bu, n zbfg znyvpvbhf qvssrerapr! Naq lrg, V
say again, and swear it now, that there's something all glorious and            fnl ntnva, naq fjrne vg abj, gung gurer'f fbzrguvat nyy tybevbhf naq
gracious in the wind. These warm Trade Winds, at least, that in the             tenpvbhf va gur jvaq. Gurfr jnez Genqr Jvaqf, ng yrnfg, gung va gur
clear heavens blow straight on, in strong and steadfast, vigorous               pyrne urniraf oybj fgenvtug ba, va fgebat naq fgrnqsnfg, ivtbebhf
mildness; and veer not from their mark, however the baser currents of           zvyqarff; naq irre abg sebz gurve znex, ubjrire gur onfre pheeragf bs
the sea may turn and tack, and mightiest Mississippies of the land swift        gur frn znl ghea naq gnpx, naq zvtugvrfg Zvffvffvccvrf bs gur ynaq fjvsg
and swerve about, uncertain where to go at last. And by the eternal             naq fjreir nobhg, hapregnva jurer gb tb ng ynfg. Naq ol gur rgreany
Poles! these same Trades that so directly blow my good ship on; these           Cbyrf! gurfr fnzr Genqrf gung fb qverpgyl oybj zl tbbq fuvc ba; gurfr
Trades, or something like them--something so unchangeable, and full as          Genqrf, be fbzrguvat yvxr gurz--fbzrguvat fb hapunatrnoyr, naq shyy nf
strong, blow my keeled soul along! To it! Aloft there! What d'ye see?"          fgebat, oybj zl xrryrq fbhy nybat! Gb vg! Nybsg gurer! Jung q'lr frr?"
                                                                                
"Nothing, sir."                                                                 "Abguvat, fve."
                                                                                
"Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sun!           "Abguvat! naq abba ng unaq! Gur qbhoybba tbrf n-orttvat! Frr gur fha!
Aye, aye, it must be so. I've oversailed him. How, got the start? Aye,          Nlr, nlr, vg zhfg or fb. V'ir birefnvyrq uvz. Ubj, tbg gur fgneg? Nlr,
he's chasing ME now; not I, HIM--that's bad; I might have known it, too.        ur'f punfvat ZR abj; abg V, UVZ--gung'f onq; V zvtug unir xabja vg, gbb.
Fool! the lines--the harpoons he's towing. Aye, aye, I have run him by          Sbby! gur yvarf--gur unecbbaf ur'f gbjvat. Nlr, nlr, V unir eha uvz ol
last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but the regular look            ynfg avtug. Nobhg! nobhg! Pbzr qbja, nyy bs lr, ohg gur erthyne ybbx
outs! Man the braces!"                                                          bhgf! Zna gur oenprf!"
                                                                                
Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod's            Fgrrevat nf fur unq qbar, gur jvaq unq orra fbzrjung ba gur Crdhbq'f
quarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced         dhnegre, fb gung abj orvat cbvagrq va gur erirefr qverpgvba, gur oenprq
ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own          fuvc fnvyrq uneq hcba gur oerrmr nf fur erpuhearq gur pernz va ure bja
white wake.                                                                     juvgr jnxr.
                                                                                
"Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw," murmured Starbuck to         "Ntnvafg gur jvaq ur abj fgrref sbe gur bcra wnj," zhezherq Fgneohpx gb
himself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. "God keep        uvzfrys, nf ur pbvyrq gur arj-unhyrq znva-oenpr hcba gur envy. "Tbq xrrc
us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside wet my        hf, ohg nyernql zl obarf srry qnzc jvguva zr, naq sebz gur vafvqr jrg zl
flesh. I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!"                     syrfu. V zvfqbhog zr gung V qvfborl zl Tbq va borlvat uvz!"
                                                                                
"Stand by to sway me up!" cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket.           "Fgnaq ol gb fjnl zr hc!" pevrq Nuno, nqinapvat gb gur urzcra onfxrg.
"We should meet him soon."                                                      "Jr fubhyq zrrg uvz fbba."
                                                                                
"Aye, aye, sir," and straightway Starbuck did Ahab's bidding, and once          "Nlr, nlr, fve," naq fgenvtugjnl Fgneohpx qvq Nuno'f ovqqvat, naq bapr
more Ahab swung on high.                                                        zber Nuno fjhat ba uvtu.
                                                                                
A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages. Time itself now held          N jubyr ubhe abj cnffrq; tbyq-orngra bhg gb ntrf. Gvzr vgfrys abj uryq
long breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off the         ybat oernguf jvgu xrra fhfcrafr. Ohg ng ynfg, fbzr guerr cbvagf bss gur
weather bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three        jrngure obj, Nuno qrfpevrq gur fcbhg ntnva, naq vafgnagyl sebz gur guerr
mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced           znfg-urnqf guerr fuevrxf jrag hc nf vs gur gbathrf bs sver unq ibvprq
it.                                                                             vg.
                                                                                
"Forehead to forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick! On deck          "Sberurnq gb sberurnq V zrrg gurr, guvf guveq gvzr, Zbol Qvpx! Ba qrpx
there!--brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye. He's too               gurer!--oenpr funecre hc; pebjq ure vagb gur jvaq'f rlr. Ur'f gbb
far off to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over that            sne bss gb ybjre lrg, Ze. Fgneohpx. Gur fnvyf funxr! Fgnaq bire gung
helmsman with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. But         uryzfzna jvgu n gbc-znhy! Fb, fb; ur geniryf snfg, naq V zhfg qbja. Ohg
let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there's             yrg zr unir bar zber tbbq ebhaq ybbx nybsg urer ng gur frn; gurer'f
time for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and            gvzr sbe gung. Na byq, byq fvtug, naq lrg fbzrubj fb lbhat; nlr, naq
not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of          abg punatrq n jvax fvapr V svefg fnj vg, n obl, sebz gur fnaq-uvyyf bs
Nantucket! The same!--the same!--the same to Noah as to me. There's             Anaghpxrg! Gur fnzr!--gur fnzr!--gur fnzr gb Abnu nf gb zr. Gurer'f
a soft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must lead               n fbsg fubjre gb yrrjneq. Fhpu ybiryl yrrjneqvatf! Gurl zhfg yrnq
somewhere--to something else than common land, more palmy than the              fbzrjurer--gb fbzrguvat ryfr guna pbzzba ynaq, zber cnyzl guna gur
palms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward,                cnyzf. Yrrjneq! gur juvgr junyr tbrf gung jnl; ybbx gb jvaqjneq,
then; the better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old           gura; gur orggre vs gur ovggrere dhnegre. Ohg tbbq olr, tbbq olr, byq
mast-head! What's this?--green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.        znfg-urnq! Jung'f guvf?--terra? nlr, gval zbffrf va gurfr jnecrq penpxf.
No such green weather stains on Ahab's head! There's the difference now         Ab fhpu terra jrngure fgnvaf ba Nuno'f urnq! Gurer'f gur qvssrerapr abj
between man's old age and matter's. But aye, old mast, we both grow old         orgjrra zna'f byq ntr naq znggre'f. Ohg nlr, byq znfg, jr obgu tebj byq
together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus           gbtrgure; fbhaq va bhe uhyyf, gubhtu, ner jr abg, zl fuvc? Nlr, zvahf
a leg, that's all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live           n yrt, gung'f nyy. Ol urnira guvf qrnq jbbq unf gur orggre bs zl yvir
flesh every way. I can't compare with it; and I've known some ships made        syrfu rirel jnl. V pna'g pbzcner jvgu vg; naq V'ir xabja fbzr fuvcf znqr
of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of          bs qrnq gerrf bhgynfg gur yvirf bs zra znqr bs gur zbfg ivgny fghss bs
vital fathers. What's that he said? he should still go before me, my            ivgny snguref. Jung'f gung ur fnvq? ur fubhyq fgvyy tb orsber zr, zl
pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at the             cvybg; naq lrg gb or frra ntnva? Ohg jurer? Jvyy V unir rlrf ng gur
bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all            obggbz bs gur frn, fhccbfvat V qrfpraq gubfr raqyrff fgnvef? naq nyy
night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye, aye,            avtug V'ir orra fnvyvat sebz uvz, jurerire ur qvq fvax gb. Nlr, nlr,
like many more thou told'st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee;        yvxr znal zber gubh gbyq'fg qvershy gehgu nf gbhpuvat gulfrys, B Cnefrr;
but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head--keep a good          ohg, Nuno, gurer gul fubg sryy fubeg. Tbbq-olr, znfg-urnq--xrrc n tbbq
eye upon the whale, the while I'm gone. We'll talk to-morrow, nay,              rlr hcba gur junyr, gur juvyr V'z tbar. Jr'yy gnyx gb-zbeebj, anl,
to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and tail."         gb-avtug, jura gur juvgr junyr yvrf qbja gurer, gvrq ol urnq naq gnvy."
                                                                                
He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered              Ur tnir gur jbeq; naq fgvyy tnmvat ebhaq uvz, jnf fgrnqvyl ybjrerq
through the cloven blue air to the deck.                                        guebhtu gur pybira oyhr nve gb gur qrpx.
                                                                                
In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop's            Va qhr gvzr gur obngf jrer ybjrerq; ohg nf fgnaqvat va uvf funyybc'f
stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the         fgrea, Nuno whfg ubirerq hcba gur cbvag bs gur qrfprag, ur jnirq gb gur
mate,--who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck--and bade him pause.            zngr,--jub uryq bar bs gur gnpxyr-ebcrf ba qrpx--naq onqr uvz cnhfr.
                                                                                
"Starbuck!"                                                                     "Fgneohpx!"
                                                                                
"Sir?"                                                                          "Fve?"
                                                                                
"For the third time my soul's ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck."          "Sbe gur guveq gvzr zl fbhy'f fuvc fgnegf hcba guvf iblntr, Fgneohpx."
                                                                                
"Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so."                                               "Nlr, fve, gubh jvyg unir vg fb."
                                                                                
"Some ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing,             "Fbzr fuvcf fnvy sebz gurve cbegf, naq rire nsgrejneqf ner zvffvat,
Starbuck!"                                                                      Fgneohpx!"
                                                                                
"Truth, sir: saddest truth."                                                    "Gehgu, fve: fnqqrfg gehgu."
                                                                                
"Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of               "Fbzr zra qvr ng roo gvqr; fbzr ng ybj jngre; fbzr ng gur shyy bs
the flood;--and I feel now like a billow that's all one crested comb,           gur sybbq;--naq V srry abj yvxr n ovyybj gung'f nyy bar perfgrq pbzo,
Starbuck. I am old;--shake hands with me, man."                                 Fgneohpx. V nz byq;--funxr unaqf jvgu zr, zna."
                                                                                
Their hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck's tears the glue.                Gurve unaqf zrg; gurve rlrf snfgrarq; Fgneohpx'f grnef gur tyhr.
                                                                                
"Oh, my captain, my captain!--noble heart--go not--go not!--see, it's a         "Bu, zl pncgnva, zl pncgnva!--aboyr urneg--tb abg--tb abg!--frr, vg'f n
brave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!"              oenir zna gung jrrcf; ubj terng gur ntbal bs gur crefhnfvba gura!"
                                                                                
"Lower away!"--cried Ahab, tossing the mate's arm from him. "Stand by           "Ybjre njnl!"--pevrq Nuno, gbffvat gur zngr'f nez sebz uvz. "Fgnaq ol
the crew!"                                                                      gur perj!"
                                                                                
In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern.                 Va na vafgnag gur obng jnf chyyvat ebhaq pybfr haqre gur fgrea.
                                                                                
"The sharks! the sharks!" cried a voice from the low cabin-window there;        "Gur funexf! gur funexf!" pevrq n ibvpr sebz gur ybj pnova-jvaqbj gurer;
"O master, my master, come back!"                                               "B znfgre, zl znfgre, pbzr onpx!"
                                                                                
But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the         Ohg Nuno urneq abguvat; sbe uvf bja ibvpr jnf uvtu-yvsgrq gura; naq gur
boat leaped on.                                                                 obng yrncrq ba.
                                                                                
Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when          Lrg gur ibvpr fcnxr gehr; sbe fpnepr unq ur chfurq sebz gur fuvc, jura
numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath            ahzoref bs funexf, frrzvatyl evfvat sebz bhg gur qnex jngref orarngu
the hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time they        gur uhyy, znyvpvbhfyl fanccrq ng gur oynqrf bs gur bnef, rirel gvzr gurl
dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat with their            qvccrq va gur jngre; naq va guvf jnl nppbzcnavrq gur obng jvgu gurve
bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats in             ovgrf. Vg vf n guvat abg hapbzzbayl unccravat gb gur junyr-obngf va
those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them in           gubfr fjnezvat frnf; gur funexf ng gvzrf nccneragyl sbyybjvat gurz va
the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching         gur fnzr cerfpvrag jnl gung ihygherf ubire bire gur onaaref bs znepuvat
regiments in the east. But these were the first sharks that had been            ertvzragf va gur rnfg. Ohg gurfr jrer gur svefg funexf gung unq orra
observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried;           bofreirq ol gur Crdhbq fvapr gur Juvgr Junyr unq orra svefg qrfpevrq;
and whether it was that Ahab's crew were all such tiger-yellow                  naq jurgure vg jnf gung Nuno'f perj jrer nyy fhpu gvtre-lryybj
barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the           oneonevnaf, naq gurersber gurve syrfu zber zhfxl gb gur frafrf bs gur
sharks--a matter sometimes well known to affect them,--however it was,          funexf--n znggre fbzrgvzrf jryy xabja gb nssrpg gurz,--ubjrire vg jnf,
they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others.               gurl frrzrq gb sbyybj gung bar obng jvgubhg zbyrfgvat gur bguref.
                                                                                
"Heart of wrought steel!" murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and           "Urneg bs jebhtug fgrry!" zhezherq Fgneohpx tnmvat bire gur fvqr, naq
following with his eyes the receding boat--"canst thou yet ring boldly          sbyybjvat jvgu uvf rlrf gur erprqvat obng--"pnafg gubh lrg evat obyqyl
to that sight?--lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by        gb gung fvtug?--ybjrevat gul xrry nzbat eniravat funexf, naq sbyybjrq ol
them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?--For          gurz, bcra-zbhgurq gb gur punfr; naq guvf gur pevgvpny guveq qnl?--Sbe
when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; be sure        jura guerr qnlf sybj gbtrgure va bar pbagvahbhf vagrafr chefhvg; or fher
the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third the evening        gur svefg vf gur zbeavat, gur frpbaq gur abba, naq gur guveq gur riravat
and the end of that thing--be that end what it may. Oh! my God! what            naq gur raq bs gung guvat--or gung raq jung vg znl. Bu! zl Tbq! jung
is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet               vf guvf gung fubbgf guebhtu zr, naq yrnirf zr fb qrnqyl pnyz, lrg
expectant,--fixed at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me,        rkcrpgnag,--svkrq ng gur gbc bs n fuhqqre! Shgher guvatf fjvz orsber zr,
as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim.          nf va rzcgl bhgyvarf naq fxryrgbaf; nyy gur cnfg vf fbzrubj tebja qvz.
Mary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to               Znel, tvey! gubh snqrfg va cnyr tybevrf oruvaq zr; obl! V frrz gb
see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seem           frr ohg gul rlrf tebja jbaqebhf oyhr. Fgenatrfg ceboyrzf bs yvsr frrz
clearing; but clouds sweep between--Is my journey's end coming? My legs         pyrnevat; ohg pybhqf fjrrc orgjrra--Vf zl wbhearl'f raq pbzvat? Zl yrtf
feel faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,--beats          srry snvag; yvxr uvf jub unf sbbgrq vg nyy qnl. Srry gul urneg,--orngf
it yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!--stave it off--move, move!                      vg lrg? Fgve gulfrys, Fgneohpx!--fgnir vg bss--zbir, zbir!
speak aloud!--Mast-head there! See ye my boy's hand on the                      fcrnx nybhq!--Znfg-urnq gurer! Frr lr zl obl'f unaq ba gur
hill?--Crazed;--aloft there!--keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:--            uvyy?--Penmrq;--nybsg gurer!--xrrc gul xrrarfg rlr hcba gur obngf:--
                                                                                
"Mark well the whale!--Ho! again!--drive off that hawk! see! he pecks--he       "Znex jryy gur junyr!--Ub! ntnva!--qevir bss gung unjx! frr! ur crpxf--ur
tears the vane"--pointing to the red flag flying at the main-truck--"Ha!        grnef gur inar"--cbvagvat gb gur erq synt sylvat ng gur znva-gehpx--"Un!
he soars away with it!--Where's the old man now? see'st thou that sight,        ur fbnef njnl jvgu vg!--Jurer'f gur byq zna abj? frr'fg gubh gung fvtug,
oh Ahab!--shudder, shudder!"                                                    bu Nuno!--fuhqqre, fuhqqre!"
                                                                                
The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads--a        Gur obngf unq abg tbar irel sne, jura ol n fvtany sebz gur znfg-urnqf--n
downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but                 qbjajneq cbvagrq nez, Nuno xarj gung gur junyr unq fbhaqrq; ohg
intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a little        vagraqvat gb or arne uvz ng gur arkg evfvat, ur uryq ba uvf jnl n yvggyr
sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest        fvqrjnlf sebz gur irffry; gur orpunezrq perj znvagnvavat gur cebsbhaqrfg
silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered against the               fvyrapr, nf gur urnq-orng jnirf unzzrerq naq unzzrerq ntnvafg gur
opposing bow.                                                                   bccbfvat obj.
                                                                                
"Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves! to their uttermost heads              "Qevir, qevir va lbhe anvyf, bu lr jnirf! gb gurve hggrezbfg urnqf
drive them in! ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin and no        qevir gurz va! lr ohg fgevxr n guvat jvgubhg n yvq; naq ab pbssva naq ab
hearse can be mine:--and hemp only can kill me! Ha! ha!"                        urnefr pna or zvar:--naq urzc bayl pna xvyy zr! Un! un!"
                                                                                
Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then           Fhqqrayl gur jngref nebhaq gurz fybjyl fjryyrq va oebnq pvepyrf; gura
quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of               dhvpxyl hcurnirq, nf vs fvqrjnlf fyvqvat sebz n fhozretrq oret bs
ice, swiftly rising to the surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; a           vpr, fjvsgyl evfvat gb gur fhesnpr. N ybj ehzoyvat fbhaq jnf urneq; n
subterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with          fhogreenarbhf uhz; naq gura nyy uryq gurve oernguf; nf orqenttyrq jvgu
trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise,          genvyvat ebcrf, naq unecbbaf, naq ynaprf, n infg sbez fubg yratgujvfr,
but obliquely from the sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it        ohg boyvdhryl sebz gur frn. Fuebhqrq va n guva qebbcvat irvy bs zvfg, vg
hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back          ubirerq sbe n zbzrag va gur envaobjrq nve; naq gura sryy fjnzcvat onpx
into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for              vagb gur qrrc. Pehfurq guvegl srrg hcjneqf, gur jngref synfurq sbe
an instant like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of           na vafgnag yvxr urncf bs sbhagnvaf, gura oebxrayl fnax va n fubjre bs
flakes, leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the            synxrf, yrnivat gur pvepyvat fhesnpr pernzrq yvxr arj zvyx ebhaq gur
marble trunk of the whale.                                                      zneoyr gehax bs gur junyr.
                                                                                
"Give way!" cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to          "Tvir jnl!" pevrq Nuno gb gur bnefzra, naq gur obngf qnegrq sbejneq gb
the attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in            gur nggnpx; ohg znqqrarq ol lrfgreqnl'f serfu vebaf gung pbeebqrq va
him, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell          uvz, Zbol Qvpx frrzrq pbzovarqyl cbffrffrq ol nyy gur natryf gung sryy
from heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad           sebz urnira. Gur jvqr gvref bs jryqrq graqbaf birefcernqvat uvf oebnq
white forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together;          juvgr sberurnq, orarngu gur genafcnerag fxva, ybbxrq xavggrq gbtrgure;
as head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once more            nf urnq ba, ur pnzr puheavat uvf gnvy nzbat gur obngf; naq bapr zber
flailed them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the two              synvyrq gurz ncneg; fcvyyvat bhg gur vebaf naq ynaprf sebz gur gjb
mates' boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows,          zngrf' obngf, naq qnfuvat va bar fvqr bs gur hccre cneg bs gurve objf,
but leaving Ahab's almost without a scar.                                       ohg yrnivat Nuno'f nyzbfg jvgubhg n fpne.
                                                                                
While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as the         Juvyr Qnttbb naq Dhrrdhrt jrer fgbccvat gur fgenvarq cynaxf; naq nf gur
whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he         junyr fjvzzvat bhg sebz gurz, ghearq, naq fubjrq bar ragver synax nf ur
shot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up. Lashed round            fubg ol gurz ntnva; ng gung zbzrag n dhvpx pel jrag hc. Ynfurq ebhaq
and round to the fish's back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which,        naq ebhaq gb gur svfu'f onpx; cvavbarq va gur gheaf hcba gheaf va juvpu,
during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines        qhevat gur cnfg avtug, gur junyr unq erryrq gur vaibyhgvbaf bs gur yvarf
around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his sable raiment        nebhaq uvz, gur unys gbea obql bs gur Cnefrr jnf frra; uvf fnoyr envzrag
frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab.                 senlrq gb fuerqf; uvf qvfgraqrq rlrf ghearq shyy hcba byq Nuno.
                                                                                
The harpoon dropped from his hand.                                              Gur unecbba qebccrq sebz uvf unaq.
                                                                                
"Befooled, befooled!"--drawing in a long lean breath--"Aye, Parsee! I           "Orsbbyrq, orsbbyrq!"--qenjvat va n ybat yrna oerngu--"Nlr, Cnefrr! V
see thee again.--Aye, and thou goest before; and this, THIS then is the         frr gurr ntnva.--Nlr, naq gubh tbrfg orsber; naq guvf, GUVF gura vf gur
hearse that thou didst promise. But I hold thee to the last letter of           urnefr gung gubh qvqfg cebzvfr. Ohg V ubyq gurr gb gur ynfg yrggre bs
thy word. Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! those           gul jbeq. Jurer vf gur frpbaq urnefr? Njnl, zngrf, gb gur fuvc! gubfr
boats are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and return to             obngf ner hfryrff abj; ercnve gurz vs lr pna va gvzr, naq erghea gb
me; if not, Ahab is enough to die--Down, men! the first thing that but          zr; vs abg, Nuno vf rabhtu gb qvr--Qbja, zra! gur svefg guvat gung ohg
offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon. Ye are          bssref gb whzc sebz guvf obng V fgnaq va, gung guvat V unecbba. Lr ner
not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.--Where's the            abg bgure zra, ohg zl nezf naq zl yrtf; naq fb borl zr.--Jurer'f gur
whale? gone down again?"                                                        junyr? tbar qbja ntnva?"
                                                                                
But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the          Ohg ur ybbxrq gbb avtu gur obng; sbe nf vs orag hcba rfpncvat jvgu gur
corpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounter had        pbecfr ur ober, naq nf vs gur cnegvphyne cynpr bs gur ynfg rapbhagre unq
been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now again steadily        orra ohg n fgntr va uvf yrrjneq iblntr, Zbol Qvpx jnf abj ntnva fgrnqvyl
swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,--which thus far had           fjvzzvat sbejneq; naq unq nyzbfg cnffrq gur fuvc,--juvpu guhf sne unq
been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present           orra fnvyvat va gur pbagenel qverpgvba gb uvz, gubhtu sbe gur cerfrag
her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his utmost                ure urnqjnl unq orra fgbccrq. Ur frrzrq fjvzzvat jvgu uvf hgzbfg
velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the        irybpvgl, naq abj bayl vagrag hcba chefhvat uvf bja fgenvtug cngu va gur
sea.                                                                            frn.
                                                                                
"Oh! Ahab," cried Starbuck, "not too late is it, even now, the third            "Bu! Nuno," pevrq Fgneohpx, "abg gbb yngr vf vg, rira abj, gur guveq
day, to desist. See! Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, that           qnl, gb qrfvfg. Frr! Zbol Qvpx frrxf gurr abg. Vg vf gubh, gubh, gung
madly seekest him!"                                                             znqyl frrxrfg uvz!"
                                                                                
Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to        Frggvat fnvy gb gur evfvat jvaq, gur ybaryl obng jnf fjvsgyl vzcryyrq gb
leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was sliding             yrrjneq, ol obgu bnef naq pnainf. Naq ng ynfg jura Nuno jnf fyvqvat
by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck's face as he          ol gur irffry, fb arne nf cynvayl gb qvfgvathvfu Fgneohpx'f snpr nf ur
leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and follow        yrnarq bire gur envy, ur unvyrq uvz gb ghea gur irffry nobhg, naq sbyybj
him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards, he             uvz, abg gbb fjvsgyl, ng n whqvpvbhf vagreiny. Tynapvat hcjneqf, ur
saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three               fnj Gnfugrtb, Dhrrdhrt, naq Qnttbb, rntreyl zbhagvat gb gur guerr
mast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats              znfg-urnqf; juvyr gur bnefzra jrer ebpxvat va gur gjb fgnirq obngf
which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in         juvpu unq ohg whfg orra ubvfgrq gb gur fvqr, naq jrer ohfvyl ng jbex va
repairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he sped,        ercnvevat gurz. Bar nsgre gur bgure, guebhtu gur cbeg-ubyrf, nf ur fcrq,
he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves           ur nyfb pnhtug sylvat tyvzcfrf bs Fghoo naq Synfx, ohflvat gurzfryirf
on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw all this; as he        ba qrpx nzbat ohaqyrf bs arj vebaf naq ynaprf. Nf ur fnj nyy guvf; nf ur
heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers seemed driving         urneq gur unzzref va gur oebxra obngf; sne bgure unzzref frrzrq qevivat
a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now marking that the vane or         n anvy vagb uvf urneg. Ohg ur enyyvrq. Naq abj znexvat gung gur inar be
flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had          synt jnf tbar sebz gur znva-znfg-urnq, ur fubhgrq gb Gnfugrtb, jub unq
just gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer         whfg tnvarq gung crepu, gb qrfpraq ntnva sbe nabgure synt, naq n unzzre
and nails, and so nail it to the mast.                                          naq anvyf, naq fb anvy vg gb gur znfg.
                                                                                
Whether fagged by the three days' running chase, and the resistance             Jurgure snttrq ol gur guerr qnlf' ehaavat punfr, naq gur erfvfgnapr
to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was some           gb uvf fjvzzvat va gur xabggrq unzcre ur ober; be jurgure vg jnf fbzr
latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the White           yngrag qrprvgshyarff naq znyvpr va uvz: juvpurire jnf gehr, gur Juvgr
Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly          Junyr'f jnl abj ortna gb nongr, nf vg frrzrq, sebz gur obng fb encvqyl
nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's last start had not been        arnevat uvz bapr zber; gubhtu vaqrrq gur junyr'f ynfg fgneg unq abg orra
so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over the waves the            fb ybat n bar nf orsber. Naq fgvyy nf Nuno tyvqrq bire gur jnirf gur
unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the            hacvglvat funexf nppbzcnavrq uvz; naq fb cregvanpvbhfyl fghpx gb gur
boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades became         obng; naq fb pbagvahnyyl ovg ng gur cylvat bnef, gung gur oynqrf orpnzr
jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost             wnttrq naq pehapurq, naq yrsg fznyy fcyvagref va gur frn, ng nyzbfg
every dip.                                                                      rirel qvc.
                                                                                
"Heed them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pull on!        "Urrq gurz abg! gubfr grrgu ohg tvir arj ebjybpxf gb lbhe bnef. Chyy ba!
'tis the better rest, the shark's jaw than the yielding water."                 'gvf gur orggre erfg, gur funex'f wnj guna gur lvryqvat jngre."
                                                                                
"But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!"             "Ohg ng rirel ovgr, fve, gur guva oynqrf tebj fznyyre naq fznyyre!"
                                                                                
"They will last long enough! pull on!--But who can tell"--he                    "Gurl jvyy ynfg ybat rabhtu! chyy ba!--Ohg jub pna gryy"--ur
muttered--"whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on                zhggrerq--"jurgure gurfr funexf fjvz gb srnfg ba gur junyr be ba
Ahab?--But pull on! Aye, all alive, now--we near him. The helm! take the        Nuno?--Ohg chyy ba! Nlr, nyy nyvir, abj--jr arne uvz. Gur uryz! gnxr gur
helm! let me pass,"--and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward        uryz! yrg zr cnff,"--naq fb fnlvat gjb bs gur bnefzra urycrq uvz sbejneq
to the bows of the still flying boat.                                           gb gur objf bs gur fgvyy sylvat obng.
                                                                                
At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along              Ng yratgu nf gur pensg jnf pnfg gb bar fvqr, naq ena enatvat nybat
with the White Whale's flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its              jvgu gur Juvgr Junyr'f synax, ur frrzrq fgenatryl boyvivbhf bs vgf
advance--as the whale sometimes will--and Ahab was fairly within the            nqinapr--nf gur junyr fbzrgvzrf jvyy--naq Nuno jnf snveyl jvguva gur
smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale's spout, curled           fzbxl zbhagnva zvfg, juvpu, guebja bss sebz gur junyr'f fcbhg, pheyrq
round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when,           ebhaq uvf terng, Zbanqabpx uhzc; ur jnf rira guhf pybfr gb uvz; jura,
with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the              jvgu obql nepurq onpx, naq obgu nezf yratgujvfr uvtu-yvsgrq gb gur
poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into the            cbvfr, ur qnegrq uvf svrepr veba, naq uvf sne svrepre phefr vagb gur
hated whale. As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked           ungrq junyr. Nf obgu fgrry naq phefr fnax gb gur fbpxrg, nf vs fhpxrq
into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled his nigh        vagb n zbenff, Zbol Qvpx fvqrjnlf jevgurq; fcnfzbqvpnyyl ebyyrq uvf avtu
flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so suddenly           synax ntnvafg gur obj, naq, jvgubhg fgnivat n ubyr va vg, fb fhqqrayl
canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of the         pnagrq gur obng bire, gung unq vg abg orra sbe gur ryringrq cneg bs gur
gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have been tossed           thajnyr gb juvpu ur gura pyhat, Nuno jbhyq bapr zber unir orra gbffrq
into the sea. As it was, three of the oarsmen--who foreknew not the             vagb gur frn. Nf vg jnf, guerr bs gur bnefzra--jub sberxarj abg gur
precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for its              cerpvfr vafgnag bs gur qneg, naq jrer gurersber hacercnerq sbe vgf
effects--these were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant two of          rssrpgf--gurfr jrer syhat bhg; ohg fb sryy, gung, va na vafgnag gjb bs
them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on a combing           gurz pyhgpurq gur thajnyr ntnva, naq evfvat gb vgf yriry ba n pbzovat
wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man helplessly          jnir, uheyrq gurzfryirf obqvyl vaobneq ntnva; gur guveq zna urycyrffyl
dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming.                                 qebccvat nfgrea, ohg fgvyy nsybng naq fjvzzvat.
                                                                                
Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,                   Nyzbfg fvzhygnarbhfyl, jvgu n zvtugl ibyvgvba bs hatenqhngrq,
instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering           vafgnagnarbhf fjvsgarff, gur Juvgr Junyr qnegrq guebhtu gur jrygrevat
sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with            frn. Ohg jura Nuno pevrq bhg gb gur fgrrefzna gb gnxr arj gheaf jvgu
the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their         gur yvar, naq ubyq vg fb; naq pbzznaqrq gur perj gb ghea ebhaq ba gurve
seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line         frngf, naq gbj gur obng hc gb gur znex; gur zbzrag gur gernpurebhf yvar
felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air!                   sryg gung qbhoyr fgenva naq ght, vg fanccrq va gur rzcgl nve!
                                                                                
"What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!--'tis whole again; oars! oars!           "Jung oernxf va zr? Fbzr fvarj penpxf!--'gvf jubyr ntnva; bnef! bnef!
Burst in upon him!"                                                             Ohefg va hcba uvz!"
                                                                                
Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled         Urnevat gur gerzraqbhf ehfu bs gur frn-penfuvat obng, gur junyr jurryrq
round to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution,              ebhaq gb cerfrag uvf oynax sberurnq ng onl; ohg va gung ribyhgvba,
catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing          pngpuvat fvtug bs gur arnevat oynpx uhyy bs gur fuvc; frrzvatyl frrvat
in it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it--it may be--a           va vg gur fbhepr bs nyy uvf crefrphgvbaf; orguvaxvat vg--vg znl or--n
larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing             ynetre naq aboyre sbr; bs n fhqqra, ur ober qbja hcba vgf nqinapvat
prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.                              cebj, fzvgvat uvf wnjf nzvq svrel fubjref bs sbnz.
                                                                                
Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. "I grow blind; hands!              Nuno fgnttrerq; uvf unaq fzbgr uvf sberurnq. "V tebj oyvaq; unaqf!
stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is't night?"                 fgergpu bhg orsber zr gung V znl lrg tebcr zl jnl. Vf'g avtug?"
                                                                                
"The whale! The ship!" cried the cringing oarsmen.                              "Gur junyr! Gur fuvc!" pevrq gur pevatvat bnefzra.
                                                                                
"Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for           "Bnef! bnef! Fybcr qbjajneqf gb gul qrcguf, B frn, gung rer vg or sbe
ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! I see:        rire gbb yngr, Nuno znl fyvqr guvf ynfg, ynfg gvzr hcba uvf znex! V frr:
the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?"                 gur fuvc! gur fuvc! Qnfu ba, zl zra! Jvyy lr abg fnir zl fuvc?"
                                                                                
But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the                      Ohg nf gur bnefzra ivbyragyl sbeprq gurve obng guebhtu gur
sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks          fyrqtr-unzzrevat frnf, gur orsber junyr-fzvggra obj-raqf bs gjb cynaxf
burst through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat          ohefg guebhtu, naq va na vafgnag nyzbfg, gur grzcbenevyl qvfnoyrq obng
lay nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying        ynl arneyl yriry jvgu gur jnirf; vgf unys-jnqvat, fcynfuvat perj, gelvat
hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water.                            uneq gb fgbc gur tnc naq onyr bhg gur cbhevat jngre.
                                                                                
Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego's mast-head hammer           Zrnagvzr, sbe gung bar orubyqvat vafgnag, Gnfugrtb'f znfg-urnq unzzre
remained suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him as          erznvarq fhfcraqrq va uvf unaq; naq gur erq synt, unys-jenccvat uvz nf
with a plaid, then streamed itself straight out from him, as his own            jvgu n cynvq, gura fgernzrq vgfrys fgenvtug bhg sebz uvz, nf uvf bja
forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon the              sbejneq-sybjvat urneg; juvyr Fgneohpx naq Fghoo, fgnaqvat hcba gur
bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon          objfcevg orarngu, pnhtug fvtug bs gur qbja-pbzvat zbafgre whfg nf fbba
as he.                                                                          nf ur.
                                                                                
"The whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers of air,        "Gur junyr, gur junyr! Hc uryz, hc uryz! Bu, nyy lr fjrrg cbjref bs nve,
now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a woman's            abj uht zr pybfr! Yrg abg Fgneohpx qvr, vs qvr ur zhfg, va n jbzna'f
fainting fit. Up helm, I say--ye fools, the jaw! the jaw! Is this the           snvagvat svg. Hc uryz, V fnl--lr sbbyf, gur wnj! gur wnj! Vf guvf gur
end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities? Oh, Ahab,          raq bs nyy zl ohefgvat cenlref? nyy zl yvsr-ybat svqryvgvrf? Bu, Nuno,
Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Up helm again!          Nuno, yb, gul jbex. Fgrnql! uryzfzna, fgrnql. Anl, anl! Hc uryz ntnva!
He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards one,           Ur gheaf gb zrrg hf! Bu, uvf hanccrnfnoyr oebj qevirf ba gbjneqf bar,
whose duty tells him he cannot depart. My God, stand by me now!"                jubfr qhgl gryyf uvz ur pnaabg qrcneg. Zl Tbq, fgnaq ol zr abj!"
                                                                                
"Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now help        "Fgnaq abg ol zr, ohg fgnaq haqre zr, jubrire lbh ner gung jvyy abj uryc
Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!        Fghoo; sbe Fghoo, gbb, fgvpxf urer. V teva ng gurr, gubh tevaavat junyr!
Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking           Jub rire urycrq Fghoo, be xrcg Fghoo njnxr, ohg Fghoo'f bja hajvaxvat
eye? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too             rlr? Naq abj cbbe Fghoo tbrf gb orq hcba n znggenff gung vf nyy gbb
soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood! I grin at thee, thou                fbsg; jbhyq vg jrer fghssrq jvgu oehfujbbq! V teva ng gurr, gubh
grinning whale! Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! I call ye assassins of           tevaavat junyr! Ybbx lr, fha, zbba, naq fgnef! V pnyy lr nffnffvaf bs
as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I would yet        nf tbbq n sryybj nf rire fcbhgrq hc uvf tubfg. Sbe nyy gung, V jbhyq lrg
ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh! thou           evat tynffrf jvgu lr, jbhyq lr ohg unaq gur phc! Bu, bu! bu, bu! gubh
grinning whale, but there'll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fly ye              tevaavat junyr, ohg gurer'yy or cyragl bs thycvat fbba! Jul syl lr
not, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in               abg, B Nuno! Sbe zr, bss fubrf naq wnpxrg gb vg; yrg Fghoo qvr va
his drawers! A most mouldy and over salted death, though;--cherries!            uvf qenjref! N zbfg zbhyql naq bire fnygrq qrngu, gubhtu;--pureevrf!
cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!"                  pureevrf! pureevrf! Bu, Synfx, sbe bar erq pureel rer jr qvr!"
                                                                                
"Cherries? I only wish that we were where they grow. Oh, Stubb, I hope          "Pureevrf? V bayl jvfu gung jr jrer jurer gurl tebj. Bu, Fghoo, V ubcr
my poor mother's drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will           zl cbbe zbgure'f qenja zl cneg-cnl rer guvf; vs abg, srj pbccref jvyy
now come to her, for the voyage is up."                                         abj pbzr gb ure, sbe gur iblntr vf hc."
                                                                                
From the ship's bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers,         Sebz gur fuvc'f objf, arneyl nyy gur frnzra abj uhat vanpgvir; unzzref,
bits of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in their             ovgf bs cynax, ynaprf, naq unecbbaf, zrpunavpnyyl ergnvarq va gurve
hands, just as they had darted from their various employments; all their        unaqf, whfg nf gurl unq qnegrq sebz gurve inevbhf rzcyblzragf; nyy gurve
enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to side strangely         rapunagrq rlrf vagrag hcba gur junyr, juvpu sebz fvqr gb fvqr fgenatryl
vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of overspreading           ivoengvat uvf cerqrfgvangvat urnq, frag n oebnq onaq bs birefcernqvat
semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution, swift vengeance,        frzvpvephyne sbnz orsber uvz nf ur ehfurq. Ergevohgvba, fjvsg iratrnapr,
eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of all that mortal           rgreany znyvpr jrer va uvf jubyr nfcrpg, naq fcvgr bs nyy gung zbegny
man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's         zna pbhyq qb, gur fbyvq juvgr ohggerff bs uvf sberurnq fzbgr gur fuvc'f
starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. Some fell flat upon their           fgneobneq obj, gvyy zra naq gvzoref erryrq. Fbzr sryy syng hcba gurve
faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook          snprf. Yvxr qvfybqtrq gehpxf, gur urnqf bs gur unecbbarref nybsg fubbx
on their bull-like necks. Through the breach, they heard the waters             ba gurve ohyy-yvxr arpxf. Guebhtu gur oernpu, gurl urneq gur jngref
pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.                                        cbhe, nf zbhagnva gbeeragf qbja n syhzr.
                                                                                
"The ship! The hearse!--the second hearse!" cried Ahab from the boat;           "Gur fuvc! Gur urnefr!--gur frpbaq urnefr!" pevrq Nuno sebz gur obng;
"its wood could only be American!"                                              "vgf jbbq pbhyq bayl or Nzrevpna!"
                                                                                
Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its             Qvivat orarngu gur frggyvat fuvc, gur junyr ena dhvirevat nybat vgf
keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far           xrry; ohg gheavat haqre jngre, fjvsgyl fubg gb gur fhesnpr ntnva, sne
off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a          bss gur bgure obj, ohg jvguva n srj lneqf bs Nuno'f obng, jurer, sbe n
time, he lay quiescent.                                                         gvzr, ur ynl dhvrfprag.
                                                                                
"I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy hammer.        "V ghea zl obql sebz gur fha. Jung ub, Gnfugrtb! yrg zr urne gul unzzre.
Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only        Bu! lr guerr hafheeraqrerq fcverf bs zvar; gubh hapenpxrq xrry; naq bayl
god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed            tbq-ohyyvrq uhyy; gubh svez qrpx, naq unhtugl uryz, naq Cbyr-cbvagrq
prow,--death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and without me? Am I           cebj,--qrngu-tybevbhf fuvc! zhfg lr gura crevfu, naq jvgubhg zr? Nz V
cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains? Oh,           phg bss sebz gur ynfg sbaq cevqr bs zrnarfg fuvcjerpxrq pncgnvaf? Bu,
lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in        ybaryl qrngu ba ybaryl yvsr! Bu, abj V srry zl gbczbfg terngarff yvrf va
my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in,        zl gbczbfg tevrs. Ub, ub! sebz nyy lbhe shegurfg obhaqf, cbhe lr abj va,
ye bold billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber        lr obyq ovyybjf bs zl jubyr sbertbar yvsr, naq gbc guvf bar cvyrq pbzore
of my death! Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering          bs zl qrngu! Gbjneqf gurr V ebyy, gubh nyy-qrfgeblvat ohg hapbadhrevat
whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at             junyr; gb gur ynfg V tenccyr jvgu gurr; sebz uryy'f urneg V fgno ng
thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee. Sink all coffins           gurr; sbe ungr'f fnxr V fcvg zl ynfg oerngu ng gurr. Fvax nyy pbssvaf
and all hearses to one common pool! and since neither can be mine, let          naq nyy urnefrf gb bar pbzzba cbby! naq fvapr arvgure pna or zvar, yrg
me then tow to pieces, while still chasing thee, though tied to thee,           zr gura gbj gb cvrprf, juvyr fgvyy punfvat gurr, gubhtu gvrq gb gurr,
thou damned whale! THUS, I give up the spear!"                                  gubh qnzarq junyr! GUHF, V tvir hc gur fcrne!"
                                                                                
The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting          Gur unecbba jnf qnegrq; gur fgevpxra junyr syrj sbejneq; jvgu vtavgvat
velocity the line ran through the grooves;--ran foul. Ahab stooped to           irybpvgl gur yvar ena guebhtu gur tebbirf;--ena sbhy. Nuno fgbbcrq gb
clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the             pyrne vg; ur qvq pyrne vg; ohg gur sylvat ghea pnhtug uvz ebhaq gur
neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was           arpx, naq ibvpryrffyl nf Ghexvfu zhgrf objfgevat gurve ivpgvz, ur jnf
shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the          fubg bhg bs gur obng, rer gur perj xarj ur jnf tbar. Arkg vafgnag, gur
heavy eye-splice in the rope's final end flew out of the stark-empty            urnil rlr-fcyvpr va gur ebcr'f svany raq syrj bhg bs gur fgnex-rzcgl
tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its           gho, xabpxrq qbja na bnefzna, naq fzvgvat gur frn, qvfnccrnerq va vgf
depths.                                                                         qrcguf.
                                                                                
For an instant, the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned. "The          Sbe na vafgnag, gur genaprq obng'f perj fgbbq fgvyy; gura ghearq. "Gur
ship? Great God, where is the ship?" Soon they through dim, bewildering         fuvc? Terng Tbq, jurer vf gur fuvc?" Fbba gurl guebhtu qvz, orjvyqrevat
mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Morgana;        zrqvhzf fnj ure fvqrybat snqvat cunagbz, nf va gur tnfrbhf Sngn Zbetnan;
only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by infatuation, or           bayl gur hccrezbfg znfgf bhg bs jngre; juvyr svkrq ol vasnghngvba, be
fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the pagan harpooneers           svqryvgl, be sngr, gb gurve bapr ybsgl crepurf, gur cntna unecbbarref
still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. And now, concentric         fgvyy znvagnvarq gurve fvaxvat ybbxbhgf ba gur frn. Naq abj, pbapragevp
circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew, and each floating        pvepyrf frvmrq gur ybar obng vgfrys, naq nyy vgf perj, naq rnpu sybngvat
oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, animate and inanimate, all             bne, naq rirel ynapr-cbyr, naq fcvaavat, navzngr naq vanavzngr, nyy
round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of the Pequod          ebhaq naq ebhaq va bar ibegrk, pneevrq gur fznyyrfg puvc bs gur Crdhbq
out of sight.                                                                   bhg bs fvtug.
                                                                                
But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the              Ohg nf gur ynfg juryzvatf vagrezvkvatyl cbherq gurzfryirf bire gur
sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the          fhaxra urnq bs gur Vaqvna ng gur znvaznfg, yrnivat n srj vapurf bs gur
erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag,         rerpg fcne lrg ivfvoyr, gbtrgure jvgu ybat fgernzvat lneqf bs gur synt,
which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying          juvpu pnyzyl haqhyngrq, jvgu vebavpny pbvapvqvatf, bire gur qrfgeblvat
billows they almost touched;--at that instant, a red arm and a hammer           ovyybjf gurl nyzbfg gbhpurq;--ng gung vafgnag, n erq nez naq n unzzre
hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing              ubirerq onpxjneqyl hcyvsgrq va gur bcra nve, va gur npg bs anvyvat
the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that           gur synt snfgre naq lrg snfgre gb gur fhofvqvat fcne. N fxl-unjx gung
tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home          gnhagvatyl unq sbyybjrq gur znva-gehpx qbjajneqf sebz vgf angheny ubzr
among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there;           nzbat gur fgnef, crpxvat ng gur synt, naq vapbzzbqvat Gnfugrtb gurer;
this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the        guvf oveq abj punaprq gb vagreprcg vgf oebnq syhggrevat jvat orgjrra gur
hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill,           unzzre naq gur jbbq; naq fvzhygnarbhfyl srryvat gung rgurevny guevyy,
the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen         gur fhozretrq fnintr orarngu, va uvf qrngu-tnfc, xrcg uvf unzzre sebmra
there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic shrieks, and his             gurer; naq fb gur oveq bs urnira, jvgu nepunatryvp fuevrxf, naq uvf
imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive form folded in the          vzcrevny ornx guehfg hcjneqf, naq uvf jubyr pncgvir sbez sbyqrq va gur
flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like Satan, would not sink        synt bs Nuno, jrag qbja jvgu uvf fuvc, juvpu, yvxr Fngna, jbhyq abg fvax
to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her, and        gb uryy gvyy fur unq qenttrq n yvivat cneg bs urnira nybat jvgu ure, naq
helmeted herself with it.                                                       uryzrgrq urefrys jvgu vg.
                                                                                
Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white        Abj fznyy sbjyf syrj fpernzvat bire gur lrg lnjavat thys; n fhyyra juvgr
surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great            fhes orng ntnvafg vgf fgrrc fvqrf; gura nyy pbyyncfrq, naq gur terng
shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.               fuebhq bs gur frn ebyyrq ba nf vg ebyyrq svir gubhfnaq lrnef ntb.
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Epilogue                                                                        Rcvybthr
                                                                                
"AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE" Job.                                 "NAQ V BAYL NZ RFPNCRQ NYBAR GB GRYY GURR" Wbo.
                                                                                
The drama's done. Why then here does any one step forth?--Because one           Gur qenzn'f qbar. Jul gura urer qbrf nal bar fgrc sbegu?--Orpnhfr bar
did survive the wreck.                                                          qvq fheivir gur jerpx.
                                                                                
It so chanced, that after the Parsee's disappearance, I was he whom the         Vg fb punaprq, gung nsgre gur Cnefrr'f qvfnccrnenapr, V jnf ur jubz gur
Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab's bowsman, when that bowsman           Sngrf beqnvarq gb gnxr gur cynpr bs Nuno'f objfzna, jura gung objfzna
assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the three          nffhzrq gur inpnag cbfg; gur fnzr, jub, jura ba gur ynfg qnl gur guerr
men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,           zra jrer gbffrq sebz bhg bs gur ebpxvat obng, jnf qebccrq nfgrea. Fb,
floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it,           sybngvat ba gur znetva bs gur rafhvat fprar, naq va shyy fvtug bs vg,
when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then,             jura gur unysfcrag fhpgvba bs gur fhax fuvc ernpurq zr, V jnf gura,
but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it had         ohg fybjyl, qenja gbjneqf gur pybfvat ibegrk. Jura V ernpurq vg, vg unq
subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever contracting          fhofvqrq gb n pernzl cbby. Ebhaq naq ebhaq, gura, naq rire pbagenpgvat
towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling        gbjneqf gur ohggba-yvxr oynpx ohooyr ng gur nkvf bs gung fybjyl jurryvat
circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining that vital              pvepyr, yvxr nabgure Vkvba V qvq eribyir. Gvyy, tnvavat gung ivgny
centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by reason of          prager, gur oynpx ohooyr hcjneq ohefg; naq abj, yvorengrq ol ernfba bs
its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, rising with great         vgf phaavat fcevat, naq, bjvat gb vgf terng ohblnapl, evfvat jvgu terng
force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea, fell over, and        sbepr, gur pbssva yvsr-ohbl fubg yratgujvfr sebz gur frn, sryy bire, naq
floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost one whole day          sybngrq ol zl fvqr. Ohblrq hc ol gung pbssva, sbe nyzbfg bar jubyr qnl
and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The unharming sharks,        naq avtug, V sybngrq ba n fbsg naq qvetryvxr znva. Gur haunezvat funexf,
they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks        gurl tyvqrq ol nf vs jvgu cnqybpxf ba gurve zbhguf; gur fnintr frn-unjxf
sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer,        fnvyrq jvgu furngurq ornxf. Ba gur frpbaq qnl, n fnvy qerj arne, arnere,
and picked me up at last. It was the devious-cruising Rachel, that in           naq cvpxrq zr hc ng ynfg. Vg jnf gur qrivbhf-pehvfvat Enpury, gung va
her retracing search after her missing children, only found another             ure ergenpvat frnepu nsgre ure zvffvat puvyqera, bayl sbhaq nabgure
orphan.                                                                         becuna.

