faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook          snprf. Yvxr qvfybqtrq gehpxf, gur urnqf bs gur unecbbarref nybsg fubbx
on their bull-like necks. Through the breach, they heard the waters             ba gurve ohyy-yvxr arpxf. Guebhtu gur oernpu, gurl urneq gur jngref
pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.                                        cbhe, nf zbhagnva gbeeragf qbja n syhzr.
                                                                                
"The ship! The hearse!--the second hearse!" cried Ahab from the boat;           "Gur fuvc! Gur urnefr!--gur frpbaq urnefr!" pevrq Nuno sebz gur obng;
"its wood could only be American!"                                              "vgf jbbq pbhyq bayl or Nzrevpna!"
                                                                                
Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its             Qvivat orarngu gur frggyvat fuvc, gur junyr ena dhvirevat nybat vgf
keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far           xrry; ohg gheavat haqre jngre, fjvsgyl fubg gb gur fhesnpr ntnva, sne
off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a          bss gur bgure obj, ohg jvguva n srj lneqf bs Nuno'f obng, jurer, sbe n
time, he lay quiescent.                                                         gvzr, ur ynl dhvrfprag.
                                                                                
"I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy hammer.        "V ghea zl obql sebz gur fha. Jung ub, Gnfugrtb! yrg zr urne gul unzzre.
Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only        Bu! lr guerr hafheeraqrerq fcverf bs zvar; gubh hapenpxrq xrry; naq bayl
god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed            tbq-ohyyvrq uhyy; gubh svez qrpx, naq unhtugl uryz, naq Cbyr-cbvagrq
prow,--death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and without me? Am I           cebj,--qrngu-tybevbhf fuvc! zhfg lr gura crevfu, naq jvgubhg zr? Nz V
cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains? Oh,           phg bss sebz gur ynfg sbaq cevqr bs zrnarfg fuvcjerpxrq pncgnvaf? Bu,
lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in        ybaryl qrngu ba ybaryl yvsr! Bu, abj V srry zl gbczbfg terngarff yvrf va
my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in,        zl gbczbfg tevrs. Ub, ub! sebz nyy lbhe shegurfg obhaqf, cbhe lr abj va,
ye bold billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber        lr obyq ovyybjf bs zl jubyr sbertbar yvsr, naq gbc guvf bar cvyrq pbzore
of my death! Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering          bs zl qrngu! Gbjneqf gurr V ebyy, gubh nyy-qrfgeblvat ohg hapbadhrevat
whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at             junyr; gb gur ynfg V tenccyr jvgu gurr; sebz uryy'f urneg V fgno ng
thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee. Sink all coffins           gurr; sbe ungr'f fnxr V fcvg zl ynfg oerngu ng gurr. Fvax nyy pbssvaf
and all hearses to one common pool! and since neither can be mine, let          naq nyy urnefrf gb bar pbzzba cbby! naq fvapr arvgure pna or zvar, yrg
me then tow to pieces, while still chasing thee, though tied to thee,           zr gura gbj gb cvrprf, juvyr fgvyy punfvat gurr, gubhtu gvrq gb gurr,
thou damned whale! THUS, I give up the spear!"                                  gubh qnzarq junyr! GUHF, V tvir hc gur fcrne!"
                                                                                
The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting          Gur unecbba jnf qnegrq; gur fgevpxra junyr syrj sbejneq; jvgu vtavgvat
velocity the line ran through the grooves;--ran foul. Ahab stooped to           irybpvgl gur yvar ena guebhtu gur tebbirf;--ena sbhy. Nuno fgbbcrq gb
clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the             pyrne vg; ur qvq pyrne vg; ohg gur sylvat ghea pnhtug uvz ebhaq gur
neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was           arpx, naq ibvpryrffyl nf Ghexvfu zhgrf objfgevat gurve ivpgvz, ur jnf
shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the          fubg bhg bs gur obng, rer gur perj xarj ur jnf tbar. Arkg vafgnag, gur
heavy eye-splice in the rope's final end flew out of the stark-empty            urnil rlr-fcyvpr va gur ebcr'f svany raq syrj bhg bs gur fgnex-rzcgl
tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its           gho, xabpxrq qbja na bnefzna, naq fzvgvat gur frn, qvfnccrnerq va vgf
depths.                                                                         qrcguf.
                                                                                
For an instant, the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned. "The          Sbe na vafgnag, gur genaprq obng'f perj fgbbq fgvyy; gura ghearq. "Gur
ship? Great God, where is the ship?" Soon they through dim, bewildering         fuvc? Terng Tbq, jurer vf gur fuvc?" Fbba gurl guebhtu qvz, orjvyqrevat
mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Morgana;        zrqvhzf fnj ure fvqrybat snqvat cunagbz, nf va gur tnfrbhf Sngn Zbetnan;
only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by infatuation, or           bayl gur hccrezbfg znfgf bhg bs jngre; juvyr svkrq ol vasnghngvba, be
fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the pagan harpooneers           svqryvgl, be sngr, gb gurve bapr ybsgl crepurf, gur cntna unecbbarref
still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. And now, concentric         fgvyy znvagnvarq gurve fvaxvat ybbxbhgf ba gur frn. Naq abj, pbapragevp
circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew, and each floating        pvepyrf frvmrq gur ybar obng vgfrys, naq nyy vgf perj, naq rnpu sybngvat
oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, animate and inanimate, all             bne, naq rirel ynapr-cbyr, naq fcvaavat, navzngr naq vanavzngr, nyy
round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of the Pequod          ebhaq naq ebhaq va bar ibegrk, pneevrq gur fznyyrfg puvc bs gur Crdhbq
out of sight.                                                                   bhg bs fvtug.
                                                                                
But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the              Ohg nf gur ynfg juryzvatf vagrezvkvatyl cbherq gurzfryirf bire gur
sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the          fhaxra urnq bs gur Vaqvna ng gur znvaznfg, yrnivat n srj vapurf bs gur
erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag,         rerpg fcne lrg ivfvoyr, gbtrgure jvgu ybat fgernzvat lneqf bs gur synt,
which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying          juvpu pnyzyl haqhyngrq, jvgu vebavpny pbvapvqvatf, bire gur qrfgeblvat
billows they almost touched;--at that instant, a red arm and a hammer           ovyybjf gurl nyzbfg gbhpurq;--ng gung vafgnag, n erq nez naq n unzzre
hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing              ubirerq onpxjneqyl hcyvsgrq va gur bcra nve, va gur npg bs anvyvat
the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that           gur synt snfgre naq lrg snfgre gb gur fhofvqvat fcne. N fxl-unjx gung
tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home          gnhagvatyl unq sbyybjrq gur znva-gehpx qbjajneqf sebz vgf angheny ubzr
among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there;           nzbat gur fgnef, crpxvat ng gur synt, naq vapbzzbqvat Gnfugrtb gurer;
this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the        guvf oveq abj punaprq gb vagreprcg vgf oebnq syhggrevat jvat orgjrra gur
hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill,           unzzre naq gur jbbq; naq fvzhygnarbhfyl srryvat gung rgurevny guevyy,
the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen         gur fhozretrq fnintr orarngu, va uvf qrngu-tnfc, xrcg uvf unzzre sebmra
there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic shrieks, and his             gurer; naq fb gur oveq bs urnira, jvgu nepunatryvp fuevrxf, naq uvf
imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive form folded in the          vzcrevny ornx guehfg hcjneqf, naq uvf jubyr pncgvir sbez sbyqrq va gur
flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like Satan, would not sink        synt bs Nuno, jrag qbja jvgu uvf fuvc, juvpu, yvxr Fngna, jbhyq abg fvax
to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her, and        gb uryy gvyy fur unq qenttrq n yvivat cneg bs urnira nybat jvgu ure, naq
helmeted herself with it.                                                       uryzrgrq urefrys jvgu vg.
                                                                                
Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white        Abj fznyy sbjyf syrj fpernzvat bire gur lrg lnjavat thys; n fhyyra juvgr
surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great            fhes orng ntnvafg vgf fgrrc fvqrf; gura nyy pbyyncfrq, naq gur terng
shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.               fuebhq bs gur frn ebyyrq ba nf vg ebyyrq svir gubhfnaq lrnef ntb.
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Epilogue                                                                        Rcvybthr
                                                                                
"AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE" Job.                                 "NAQ V BAYL NZ RFPNCRQ NYBAR GB GRYY GURR" Wbo.
                                                                                
The drama's done. Why then here does any one step forth?--Because one           Gur qenzn'f qbar. Jul gura urer qbrf nal bar fgrc sbegu?--Orpnhfr bar
did survive the wreck.                                                          qvq fheivir gur jerpx.
                                                                                
It so chanced, that after the Parsee's disappearance, I was he whom the         Vg fb punaprq, gung nsgre gur Cnefrr'f qvfnccrnenapr, V jnf ur jubz gur
Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab's bowsman, when that bowsman           Sngrf beqnvarq gb gnxr gur cynpr bs Nuno'f objfzna, jura gung objfzna
assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the three          nffhzrq gur inpnag cbfg; gur fnzr, jub, jura ba gur ynfg qnl gur guerr
men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,           zra jrer gbffrq sebz bhg bs gur ebpxvat obng, jnf qebccrq nfgrea. Fb,
floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it,           sybngvat ba gur znetva bs gur rafhvat fprar, naq va shyy fvtug bs vg,
when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then,             jura gur unysfcrag fhpgvba bs gur fhax fuvc ernpurq zr, V jnf gura,
but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it had         ohg fybjyl, qenja gbjneqf gur pybfvat ibegrk. Jura V ernpurq vg, vg unq
subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever contracting          fhofvqrq gb n pernzl cbby. Ebhaq naq ebhaq, gura, naq rire pbagenpgvat
towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling        gbjneqf gur ohggba-yvxr oynpx ohooyr ng gur nkvf bs gung fybjyl jurryvat
circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining that vital              pvepyr, yvxr nabgure Vkvba V qvq eribyir. Gvyy, tnvavat gung ivgny
centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by reason of          prager, gur oynpx ohooyr hcjneq ohefg; naq abj, yvorengrq ol ernfba bs
its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, rising with great         vgf phaavat fcevat, naq, bjvat gb vgf terng ohblnapl, evfvat jvgu terng
force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea, fell over, and        sbepr, gur pbssva yvsr-ohbl fubg yratgujvfr sebz gur frn, sryy bire, naq
floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost one whole day          sybngrq ol zl fvqr. Ohblrq hc ol gung pbssva, sbe nyzbfg bar jubyr qnl
and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The unharming sharks,        naq avtug, V sybngrq ba n fbsg naq qvetryvxr znva. Gur haunezvat funexf,
they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks        gurl tyvqrq ol nf vs jvgu cnqybpxf ba gurve zbhguf; gur fnintr frn-unjxf
sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer,        fnvyrq jvgu furngurq ornxf. Ba gur frpbaq qnl, n fnvy qerj arne, arnere,
and picked me up at last. It was the devious-cruising Rachel, that in           naq cvpxrq zr hc ng ynfg. Vg jnf gur qrivbhf-pehvfvat Enpury, gung va
her retracing search after her missing children, only found another             ure ergenpvat frnepu nsgre ure zvffvat puvyqera, bayl sbhaq nabgure
orphan.                                                                         becuna.

